To-day I consider it a good omen that Destiny appointed Braunau-on-the- 
Inn to be my birthplace, for that little town is situated just on the frontier 
between those two German States, the reunion of which seems, at least to us of 
the younger generation, a task to which we should devote our lives, and in the 
pursuit of which every possible means should be employed. 


German-Austria must be restored to the great German Fatherland, and 
not on economic grounds. Even if the union were a matter of economic 
indifference, and even if it were to be disadvantageous from the economic 
standpoint, it still ought to take place. People of the same blood should be in 
the same Reich. 


The German people will have no right to engage ina colonial policy 
until they have brought all their children together in one State. When the 
territory of the Reich embraces all Germans and proves incapable of assuring 
them a livelihood, only then can the moral right arise, from the need of the 
people, to acquire foreign territory. The plough is then the sword, and the tears 
of war will produce the daily bread for the generations to come. 


For this reason the little frontier town appeared to me as the symbol of a 
great task, but in another respect it teaches us a lesson that is applicable to our 
day. Over a hundred years ago this sequestered spot was the scene of a tragic 
calamity which affected the whole German nation and will he remembered for 
ever, at least in the annals of German history. 


At the time of our Fatherland’s deepest humiliation, a Nurnberg 
bookseller, Johannes Palm, an uncompromising nationalist and an enemy of the 
French, was put to death here because he had loved Germany even in her 
misfortune. He obstinately refused to disclose the names of his associates, or 
rather the principals who were chiefly responsible for the affair, just as Leo 
Schlageter did. 


The former, like the latter, was denounced to the French by a government 
official, a director of police from Augsburg who won ignoble renown on that 
occasion and set the example which was to be copied at a later date by the 
German officials of the Reich under Herr Severing’s regime. 


In this little town on the Inn, hallowed by the memory of a German 


16 


martyr a town that was Bavarian by blood but under the rule of the Austrian 
State, my parents were domiciled towards the end of the last century. My father 
was a civil servant who fulfilled his duties very conscientiously. 


My mother looked after the household and lovingly devoted herself to the 
care of her children of that period I have not retained many memories, because 
after a few years my father had to leave that frontier town which I had come to 
love so much and take up a new post farther down the Inn valley, at Passau, 
therefore, actually in Germany itself: 


In those days it was the usual lot of an Austrian civil servant to be 
transferred periodically from one post to another. Not long after coming to 
Passau my father was transferred to Linz, and while there he retired to live on 
his pension, but this did not mean that the old gentleman would now rest from 
his labours. 


He was the son of a poor cottager, and while still a boy he grew restless 
and left home. When he was barely thirteen years old he buckled on his satchel 
and set forth from his native country parish. Despite the dissuasion of villagers 
who could speak from ‘experience’, he went to Vienna to learn a trade there. 
This was in the fifties of last century. 


It was a sore trial, that of deciding to leave home and face the unknown, 
with three gulden in his pocket but when the boy of thirteen was a lad of 
seventeen and had passed his apprenticeship examination as a craftsman, he 
was not content. On the contrary, the persistent economic depression of that 
period and the constant want and misery strengthened his resolution to give up 
working at a trade and strive for ‘something higher.’ 


As a boy it had seemed to him that the position of the parish priest in his 
native village was the highest in the scale of human attainment, but now that the 
big city had enlarged his outlook the young man looked up to the dignity of a 
state official as the highest of all. With the tenacity of one whom misery and 
trouble had already made old when only half-way through his youth, the young 
man of seventeen obstinately set out on his new project and stuck to it until he 
won through. 


He became a civil servant. He was about twenty-three years old, I think, 
when he succeeded in making himself what he had resolved to become. Thus 
he was able to keep, the vow he had made as a poor boy, not to return to his 
native village until he was ‘somebody.’ He had gained his end, but in the 


17 


village there was nobody who remembered him as a little boy, and the village 
itself had become strange to him. 


Now at last, when he was fifty-six years old, he gave up his active 
career, but he could not bear to be idle for a single day. On the outskirts of the 
small market-town of Lambach in Upper Austria he bought a farm and tilled it 
himself. Thus, at the end of a long and hard-working career, he returned to the 
life which his father had led. 


It was at this period that I first began to have ideals of my own. I spent a 
good deal of time scampering about in the open, on the long road from school, 
and mixing with some of the roughest of the boys, which caused my mother 
many anxious moments. All this tended to make me something quite the reverse 
of a stay-at-home. 


I gave scarcely any serious thought to the question of choosing a vocation 
in life, but I was certainly quite out of sympathy with the kind of career which 
my father had followed. I think that an inborn talent for speaking now began to 
develop and take shape during the more or less strenuous arguments which I 
used to have with my comrades. 


I had become a juvenile ringleader who learned well and easily at 
school, but was rather difficult to manage. In my free time I practised singing in 
the choir of the monastery church at Lambach, and thus it happened that I was 
placed ina very favourable position to be emotionally impressed again and 
again by the magnificent splendour of ecclesiastical ceremonial. 


What could be more natural for me than to look upon the abbot as 
representing the highest human ideal worth striving for, just as the position of 
the humble village priest had appeared so to my father in his own boyhood 
days? 


At least that was my idea for a while, but the childish disputes I had with 
my father did not lead him to appreciate his son’s oratorical gifts in such a way 
as to see in them a favourable promise for such a career, and so he naturally 
could not understand the boyish ideas I had in my head at that time. This 
contradiction in my character made him feel somewhat anxious. 


As a matter of fact, that transitory yearning after such a vocation soon 
gave way to hopes that were better suited to my temperament. Browsing among 
my father’s books, I chanced to come across some publications that dealt with 


18 


military subjects. One of these publications was a popular history of the 
Franco-German War of 1870-71. 


It consisted of two volumes of art illustrated periodical dating from 
those years. These became my favourite reading. In a little while that great and 
heroic conflict began to occupy my mind, and from that time onwards I became 
more and more enthusiastic about everything that was in any way connected 
with war or military affairs. 


The story of the Franco-German War had a special significance for me 
on other grounds also. For the first time, and as yet only in quite a vague way, 
the question began to present itself: Is there a difference—and if there be, what 
is it—between the Germans who fought that war, and the other Germans? 


Why did not Austria also take part in it? Why did not my father and all 
the others fight in that struggle? Are we not the same as the other Germans? Do 
we not all belong together? 


That was the fiat time that this problem began to agitate my small brain, 
and from the replies that were given to the questions which I asked very 
tentatively, I was forced to accept the fact, though with a secret envy, that not 
all Germans had the good luck to belong to Bismarck’s Reich. This was 
something that I could not understand. 


It was decided that I should study. Considering my character as a whole, 
and especially my temperament, my father decided that the classical subjects 
studied at the Gymnasium were not suited to my natural talents, lie thought that 
the Realschule would suit me better. 


My obvious talent for drawing confirmed him in that view, for in his 
opinion, drawing was a subject too much neglected in the Austrian 
Gymnasium. Probably also the memory of the hard road which he himself had 
travelled contributed to make him look upon classical studies as unpractical 
and accordingly to set little value on them. 


At the back of his mind he had the idea that his son should also become a 
government official. Indeed he had decided on that career for me. The 
difficulties with which he had had to contend in making his own career led him 
to overestimate what he had achieved, because this was exclusively the result 
of his own indefatigable industry and energy. 


The characteristic pride of the self-made man caused him to cherish the 


19 


idea that his son should follow the same calling and if possible rise to a higher 
position in it. Moreover, this idea was strengthened by the consideration that 
the results of his own life’s industry had placed him in a position to facilitate 
his son’s advancement in the same profession. 


He was simply incapable of imagining that I might reject what had meant 
everything in life to him. My father’s decision was simple, definite, clear and 
in his eyes, it was something to be taken for granted. 


A man of such a nature who had become an autocrat by reason of his 
own hard struggle for existence, could not think of allowing ‘inexperienced’ 
and irresponsible young people to choose their own careers. 


To act in such a way, where the future of his own son was concerned, 
would have been a grave and reprehensible weakness in the exercise ‘of 
parental authority and responsibility, something utterly incompatible with his 
characteristic sense of duty.’ Still, he did not have his way. 


For the first time in my life (I was then eleven years old) I felt myself 
forced into open opposition. No matter how hard and determined my father 
might be about putting his own plans and opinions into effect, his son was no 
less obstinate in refusing to accept ideas on which he set little or no value. I 
would not become a civil servant. 


No amount of persuasion and no amount of ‘grave’ warnings could break 
down that opposition. I would not become a government official, not on any 
account. 


All the attempts which my father made to arouse in me a love or liking 
for that profession, by picturing his own career for me, had only the opposite 
effect. It nauseated me to think that one day I might be fettered to an office 
stool, that I could not dispose of my own time, but would be forced to spend 
the whole of my life filling out forms. 


One can imagine what kind of thoughts such a prospect awakened in the 
mind of a boy who was by no means what is called a ‘good boy’ in the current 
sense of that term. The ease with which I learned my lessons made it possible 
for me to spend, far more time in the open air than at home. 


To-day, when my political opponents pry into my life, as far back as the 
days of my boyhood, with diligent scrutiny so as finally to be able to prove 
what disreputable tricks this Hitler was, accustomed to play in his young day, I 


20 


thank Heaven that I can look back on those happy days and find the memory of 
them helpful. 


The fields and the woods were then the terrain on which all disputes 
were fought out. Even attendance at the Realschule could not alter my way of 
spending my time. But I had now another battle to fight. 


So long as the paternal plan to make me a state functionary contradicted 
my own inclinations only in the abstract, the conflict was easy to bear. I could 
be discreet about expressing my person it views and thus avoid constantly 
recurrent disputes. 


My own resolution not to become a government official was sufficient 
for the time being to put my mind completely at rest. I held on to that resolution 
inexorably. 


But the situation became more difficult once I had a positive plan of my 
own which I could present to my father as a counter-suggestion. This happened 
when I was twelve years old. How it came about I cannot exactly say now, but 
one day it became clear to me that I wanted to be a painter—I mean an artist. 


That I had an aptitude for drawing was an admitted fact. It was even one 
of the reasons why my father had sent me to the Realschule; but he had never 
thought of having that talent developed so that I could take up painting as a 
professional career. Quite the contrary. 


When, as a result of my renewed refusal to comply with his favourite 
plan, my father asked me for the first time what I myself really wished to be, 
the resolution that I had already formed expressed itself almost automatically. 
For a while my father was speechless. 


“A painter? An artist?” he exclaimed. 


He wondered whether I was in a sound state of mind. He thought that he 
might not have caught my words rightly, or that he had misunderstood what I 
meant, but when I had explained my ideas to him and he saw how seriously I 
took them, he opposed them with his characteristic energy. His decision was 
exceedingly simple and could not be deflected from its course by any 
consideration of what my own natural qualifications really were. 


“Artist! Not as long as I live, never.” As the son had inherited some of 
the father’s obstinacy, along with other qualities, his reply was equally 


21 


energetic, but, of course, opposed to his, and so the matter stood. My father 
would not abandon his ‘Never,’ and I became all the more determined in my 
‘Nevertheless.’ 


Naturally the resulting situation was not pleasant. The old gentleman was 
embittered and indeed so was I, although I really loved him. My father forbade 
me to entertain any hopes of taking up painting as a profession. I went a step 
further and declared that I would not study anything else. With such 
declarations the situation became still more strained, so that the old gentleman 
decided to assert his parental authority at all costs. 


This led me to take refuge in silence, but I put my threat into execution. I 
thought that, once it became clear to my father that | was making no progress at 
the Realschule, he would be forced to allow me to follow the career I had 
dreamed of. 


I do not know whether I calculated rightly or not. Certainly my failure to 
make progress became apparent in the school. I studied just those subjects that 
appealed to me, especially those which I thought might be of advantage to me 
later on as a painter. What did not appear to have any importance from this 
point of view, or what did not otherwise appeal to me, I completely neglected. 


My school reports of that time were always in the extremes of good or 
bad, according to the subject and the interest it had for me. In one column the 
remark was ‘very good’ or ‘excellent, in another ‘average’ or even “below 
average.’ By far my best subjects were geography and general history. These 
were my two favourite subjects, and I was top of the class in them. 


When I look back over so many years and try to judge the results of that 
experience I find two very significant facts standing out clearly before my 
mind. Firstly, I became a nationalist. Secondly, I learned to understand and 
grasp the true meaning of history. 


The old Austria was a multi-national State. In those days at least, the 
citizens of the German Reich, taken all in all, could not understand what that 
fact meant in the everyday life of the individuals within such a State. 


After the magnificent triumphant march of the victorious armies in the 
Franco-German War the Germans in the Reich became steadily more and more 
estranged from the Germans beyond their frontiers, partly because they did not 
deign to appreciate those other Germans at their, true value or simply because 


OM) 


they were incapable of doing so. In thinking of Austria, they were prone to 
confuse the decadent dynasty and the people which was essentially very sound. 


The Germans in the Reich did not realise that if the Germans in Austria 
had not been of the best racial stock they could never have given the stamp of 
their own character to an Empire of fifty-two millions, so definitely that in 
Germany itself the idea arose—though quite erroneously—that Austria was a 
German State. 


That was an error which had dire consequences; but all the same it was a 
magnificent testimony to the character of the ten million Germans in the 
Ostmark. Only very few Germans in the Reich itself had an idea of the bitter 
struggle which those Eastern Germans had to carry on daily for the 
preservation of their German language, their German schools and their German 
character. 


Only to-day, when a tragic fate has wrested several millions of our 
kinsfolk from the Reich and has forced them to live under the rule of the 
stranger, dreaming of that common fatherland towards which all their yearnings 
are directed and struggling to uphold at least the sacred right of using their 
mother tongue—only now have the wider circles of the German population 
come to realise what it means to have to fight for the traditions of one’s race. 


So at last, perhaps there are people here and there who can assess the 
greatness of that German spirit which animated the old Ostmark and enabled 
those people, left entirely dependent on their own resources, to defend the 
Reich against the Orient for several centuries and subsequently to hold the 
frontiers of the German language by means of a guerilla warfare of attrition, at 
a time when the German Reich was sedulously cultivating an interest in 
colonies but not in its own flesh and blood at its very threshold. 


What has happened always and everywhere, in every kind of struggle, 
happened also in the language fight which was carried on in the old Austria. 
There were three groups the fighters, those who were luke-warm, and the 
traitors. 


This sifting process began even in the schools and it is worth noting that 
the struggle for the language was waged perhaps in its bitterest form around the 
school, because this was the nursery where the seeds had to be tended which 
were to spring up and form the future generation. 


23 


The tactical objective of the fight was the winning over of the child, and 
it was to the child that the first rallying cry was addressed, “German boy, do 
not forget that you are a German,” and “Remember, little girl, that one day you 
must be a German mother.” 


Those who know something of the juvenile spirit can understand how 
youth will always lend a ready ear to such a rallying cry. In many ways the 
young people led the struggle, fighting in their own manner and with their own 
weapons. They refused to sing non-German songs. 


The greater the efforts made to win them away from their German 
allegiance, the more they exalted the glory of their German heroes. They stinted 
themselves in buying sweetmeats, so that they might spare their pennies to help 
the war fund of their elders. 


They were incredibly alert to the significance of what the non-German 
teachers said and they contradicted in unison. They wore the forbidden 
emblems of their own nation and were happy when penalized, or even 
physically punished. In their own way, they faithfully mirrored their elders, and 
often their attitude was finer and more sincere. 


Thus it was that at a comparatively early age I took part in the struggle 
which the nationalities were waging against one another in the old Austria. 
When collections were made for the youth Mark German League and the 
School League we wore cornflowers and black-red-gold colours to express 
our loyalty. We greeted one another with Heil! and instead of the Austrian 
anthem we sang our own Deutschland uber Alles, despite warnings and 
penalties. 


Thus the youth was being educated politically, at a time when the citizens 
of a so-called national State for the most part knew little of their own 
nationality except the language. 


Of course, I did not belong to the luke-warm section. Within a little 
while I had become an ardent ‘German National,’ which had a different 
meaning from the party significance attached to that term to-day. 


I developed very rapidly in the nationalist direction, and by the time I 
was fifteen years old, I had come to understand the distinction between 
dynastic patriotism and volkisch nationalism, my sympathies being entirely in 
favour of the latter even in those days. 


24 


Such a preference may not perhaps be clearly intelligible to those who 
have never taken the trouble to study the internal conditions that prevailed in 
Austria under the Habsburg monarchy. 


In Austria it was world-history as taught in schools that served to sow 
the seeds of this development, for Austrian history, as such, is practically non- 
existent. 


The fate of this State was closely bound up with the existence and 
development of Germany as a whole, so that a division of history into German 
history and Austrian history 1s practically inconceivable. And indeed it was 
only when the German people came to be divided between two States that this 
division began to make German history. 


The insignia of a former imperial sovereignty which were still preserved 
in Vienna appeared to act as a magic guarantee of an everlasting bond of union. 


When the Habsburg State crumbled to pieces in 1918 the Austrian 
Germans instinctively raised an outcry for union with their German mother- 
country. That was the voice of unanimous yearning in the hearts of the whole 
people for a return to the unforgotten home of their fathers. 


But such a general yearning could not be explained except by the 
historical training through which the individual Austrian Germans had passed. 
It was a spring that never dried up. Especially in times of distraction and 
forgetfulness its quiet voice was a reminder of the past, bidding the people to 
look beyond the mere well-being of the moment to a new future. 


The teaching of universal history in what are called the higher grade 
schools is still very unsatisfactory. 


Few teachers realise that the purpose of teaching history is not the 
memorizing of some dates and facts, that it does not matter whether a boy 
knows the exact date of a battle or the birthday of some marshal or other, nor 
when the crown of his fathers was placed on the brow of some insignificant 
monarch. That is not what matters. 


To study history means to search for and discover the forces that are the 
causes of those results which appear before our eyes as historical events. The 
art of reading and studying consists in remembering the essentials and 
forgetting what is inessential. 


2D 


Probably my whole future life was determined by the fact that I had a 
teacher of history who understood, as few others understand, how to make this 
viewpoint prevail in teaching and in examining. This teacher was Dr. Leopold 
Poetsch, of the Realschule at Linz. He was the ideal personification of the 
qualities necessary to a teacher of history in the sense I have mentioned above. 


An elderly gentleman with a decisive manner but a kindly heart, he was a 
very attractive speaker and, was able to inspire us with his own enthusiasm. 
Even to-day I cannot recall without emotion that venerable personality whose 
enthusiastic exposition of history so often made us entirely forget the present 
and allow ourselves to be transported as if by magic into the past. 


He penetrated through the dim mist of thousands of years and 
transformed the historical memory of the dead, past into a living reality. When 
we listened to him we became afire with enthusiasm and we were sometimes 
moved even to tears. 


It was still more fortunate that this master was able not only to illustrate 
the past by examples from the present, but from the past, he was also able to 
draw a lesson for the present. 


He understood better than any other the everyday problems that were 
then agitating our minds. The national fervour which we fell in our own small 
way was utilised by him as an instrument of our education, inasmuch as he 
often appealed to our national sense of honour, for in that way he maintained 
order and held our attention much more easily than he could have done by any 
other means. It was because I had such a master that history became my 
favourite subject. As a natural consequence, but without the conscious 
connivance of my teacher, I then and there became a young rebel. 


But who could have studied German history under such a teacher and not 
become an enemy of that State whose rulers exercised such, a disastrous 
influence on the destinies of the German nation? 


Finally, how could one remain a faithful subject of the House of 
Habsburg, whose past history and present conduct proved it to be ready, ever 
and always, to betray the interests of the German people for the sake of paltry 
personal interests? Did not we, as youngsters, fully realise that the House of 
Habsburg did not, and could not, have any love for us Germans? 


What history taught us about the policy followed by the House of 


26 


Habsburg was corroborated by our own everyday experiences. In the north and 
in the south the poison of foreign races was eating into the body of our people, 
and even Vienna was steadily becoming more and more a non-German city. 
The ‘Imperial House’ favoured the Czechs on every possible occasion. 


Indeed, it was the hand of the goddess of eternal justice and inexorable 
retribution that caused the most deadly enemy of Germanism in Austria, the 
Archduke Franz Ferdinand, to fall by the very bullets which he himself had 
helped to cast. He was the prime mover in the work, begun by the ruling 
classes, of turning Austria into a Slav State. 


The burdens laid on the shoulders of the German people were enormous 
and the sacrifices of money and blood which they had to make were incredibly 
heavy. Yet anybody who was not quite blind must have seen that it was all in 
vain. 


What affected us most bitterly was the consciousness of the fact that this 
whole system was morally sanctioned by the alliance with Germany, whereby 
the slow extirpation of Germanism in the old Austrian Monarchy seemed in 
some way to be more or less countenanced by Germany herself. 


Habsburg hypocrisy, which endeavoured outwardly to make the people 
believe that Austria still remained a German State, increased the feeling of 
hatred against the Imperial House and at the same time aroused a spirit of 
rebellion and contempt. 


Only in the German Reich itself did those who were then its rulers fail to 
understand what all this meant. As if struck blind, they stood beside a corpse 
and in the very symptoms of decomposition they believed that they recognised 
the signs of renewed vitality. In that unhappy alliance between the young 
German Empire and the illusory Austrian State lay the germ of the World War 
and also of the final collapse. 


In subsequent passages of this book I shall go to the root of this problem. 
Suffice it here to say that in the very early years of my youth I came to certain 
conclusions which I have never abandoned, Indeed I became more profoundly 
convinced of them as the years passed. 


They were, firstly, that the dissolution of the Austrian Empire was a 
preliminary condition for the safeguarding of German nationality and culture; 
further, that national feeling is by no means identical with dynastic patriotism; 


2} 


and, above all, that the House of Habsburg was destined to bring misfortune on 
the German nation. As a logical consequence of these convictions, there arose 
in me a feeling of intense love for my German-Austrian home and a profound 
hatred for the Austrian State. 


The way of looking at history which was developed in me through my 
study of history at school never left me afterwards. World-history became 
more and more an inexhaustible source for the understanding of contemporary 
historical events, which means politics. Therefore, I would not ‘learn’ history, 
but let history teach me. 


A precocious revolutionary in politics, I was no less a precocious 
revolutionary in art. At that time, the provincial capital of Upper Austria had a 
theatre which, relatively speaking, was not bad. Almost everything was 
produced there. 


When I was twelve years old I saw a performance of Wilhelm Tell there. 
That was my first experience of the theatre. Some months later I attended a 
performance of Lohengrin, the first opera I had ever heard. I was fascinated at 
once. 


My youthful enthusiasm for the Bayreuth Master knew no bounds. Again 
and again I was drawn to hear his operas; and to-day I consider it a great piece 
of luck that these modest productions in the little provincial city prepared the 
way and made it possible for me to appreciate better productions later on. 


All this helped to intensify my profound aversion for the career that my 
father had chosen for me, and this dislike became especially strong as the 
rough corners of youthful boorishness were worn down, a process which, in 
my case, was fraught with a good deal of pain. 


I became more and more convinced that I should never be happy as a 
government official, and now that the Realschule had recognised and 
acknowledged my aptitude for drawing, my own resolution became all the 
stronger. 


Imprecations and threats had no longer any power to change it. I wanted 
to become a painter and no power on earth could force me to become a civil 
servant. The only peculiar feature of, the situation now was that as I grew 
bigger I became more and more interested in architecture. 


I considered this fact as a natural complement of my talent for painting 


28 


and I rejoiced inwardly that the sphere of my artistic interests was thus 
enlarged. I had no notion that one day it would have to be otherwise. 


The question of my career was decided much sooner than I could have 
foreseen. When I was in my thirteenth year my father was suddenly taken from 
us. He was still in robust health when a stroke of apoplexy painlessly ended 
his earthly sojourn and left us all deeply bereaved. 


His most ardent longing was to be able to help his son to advance ina 
career and thus save him from the harsh ordeal that he himself had had to 
undergo, but it appeared then as if that longing were in vain. And yet, though he 
himself was not conscious of it, he had sown the seeds of a future which 
neither of us foresaw at that time. 


At first nothing was changed outwardly. My mother felt it her duty to 
continue my education in accordance with my father’s wishes, which meant 
that she would have me study for the civil service. For my own part, I was 
even more firmly determined than ever before that in no circumstances would I 
become a government official. 


The curriculum and teaching methods followed in the higher grade 
school were so far removed from my ideals that I became profoundly 
indifferent. Illness suddenly came to my assistance. Within a few weeks it 
decided my future and put an end to the long-standing family conflict. 


My lungs became so seriously affected that the doctor advised my mother 
very strongly not in any circumstances to allow me to take up a career which 
would necessitate working in an office. He ordered that I should give up 
attending the Realschule, for a year at least. 


What I had secretly desired for such a long time, and had persistently 
fought for, now suddenly became reality without effort on my part. Influenced 
by my illness, my mother agreed that I should leave the Realschule and attend 
the Academy. 


Those were happy days, which appeared to me almost like a dream; and 
they were doomed to remain only a dream. Two years later my mother’s death 
put a brutal end to all my fine projects. She succumbed to a long and painful 
illness which, from the very beginning, permitted little hope of recovery. 


Though expected, her death came as a terrible blow to me. I respected 
my father, but I loved my mother. 


29 


Poverty and stern reality forced me to decide promptly. The meagre 
resources of the family had been almost entirely used up through my mother’s 
severe illness. The allowance which came to me as an orphan was not enough 
for the bare necessities of life. 


Somehow or other, I would have to earn my own bread. With my clothes 
and linen packed ina valise and with an indomitable resolution in my heart, I 
left for Vienna. I hoped to forestall Fate, as my father had done fifty years 
before, I was determined to become ‘somebody’ but certainly not a civil 
servant. 


30 


31 


32 
