During the boisterous years of my youth, nothing used to damp my wild 
spirits so much as to think that I was born at a time when the world had 
manifestly decided not to erect any more temples of fame except in honour of 
business people and government officials. 


The tempest of historical achievements seemed to have permanently 
subsided, so much so, that the future appeared to be irrevocably delivered over 
to what was called peaceful competition between the nations. This simply 
meant a system of mutual exploitation by fraudulent means, the principle of 
resorting to the use of force in self-defence being formally excluded. 


Individual countries increasingly assumed the appearance of commercial 
undertakings, grabbing territory, clients and concessions from each other under 
any and every kind of pretext, and it was all carried out to the accompaniment 
of loud but innocuous shouting. 


This trend of affairs seemed destined to develop steadily and 
permanently. Having the support of public approbation, it seemed bound 
eventually to transform the world into a mammoth department store. In the 
vestibule of this emporium there would be rows of monumental busts which 
would confer immortality on those profiteers who had proved themselves the 
shrewdest at their trade and those administrative officials who had shown 
themselves the most innocuous. 


The salesmen could be represented by the English and the administrative 
functionaries by the Germans; whereas the Jews would have to sacrifice 
themselves and be content with the unprofitable calling, of proprietorship, for 
they are constantly avowing that they make no profits and are always being 
called upon to ‘pay out.’ 


Moreover, they have the advantage of being versed in foreign languages. 


Why could I not have been born a hundred years ago, I used to ask 
myself, somewhere about the time of the Wars of Liberation, when a man was 
still of some value even though he had no ‘business?’ Thus I used to think it an 
ill-deserved stroke of bad luck that I had arrived too late on this terrestrial 
globe and I felt chagrined at the idea that my life would have to run its course 
along peaceful and orderly lines. 


177 


As a boy I was anything but a pacifist and all attempts to make me so 
turned out futile. 


Then the Boer War came, like a flash of lightning on the far horizon. Day 
after day, I used to gaze intently at the newspapers and I almost ‘devoured’ the 
telegrams and communiques, overjoyed to think that I could witness that heroic 
struggle, even though from so great a distance. 


When the Russo-Japanese War came, I was older and better able to 
judge for myself. For national reasons | then took the side of the Japanese in 
our discussions and I looked upon the defeat of the Russians as a blow to 
Austrian Slavism. 


Many years had passed between that time and my arrival in Munich. I 
now realised that what I formerly believed to be a morbid decadence was only 
the lull before the storm. During my Vienna days, the Balkans were already in 
the grip of that sultry pause which presages the violent storm. Here and there, a 
flash of lightning could be seen occasionally, but it rapidly disappeared in 
sinister gloom. 


Then the Balkan War broke out, and with it, the first gusts of the coming 
tornado swept across a highly strung Europe. In the supervening calm men felt 
the atmosphere oppressive with foreboding, so much so that the sense of an 
impending catastrophe became transformed into a feeling of impatient 
expectancy. 


They wished that Heaven would give free rein to the fate which could 
now no longer be curbed. Then the first great bolt of lightning struck the earth. 
The storm broke and the thunder of the heavens intermingled with the roar of 
the cannons in the World War. 


When the news came to Munich that the Archduke Franz Ferdinand had 
been murdered, I had been at home all day and did not learn the particulars of 
how it happened. At first, I feared that the shots had been fired by some 
German- Austrian students who had been aroused to a state of furious 
indignation by the persistent pro-Slav activities of the heir to the Habsburg 
throne and therefore wished to liberate the German population from this 
internal enemy. 


It was quite easy to imagine what the result of such a mistake would have 
been. It would have brought on, a new wave of persecution, the motives of 


178 


which would have been ‘justified’ before the whole world, but soon 
afterwards I heard the names of the presumed assassins and learned also that 
they were known to be Serbs. 


I felt somewhat dumbfounded in face of the inexorable vengeance which 
Destiny had wrought. The greatest friend of the Slavs had fallen a victim to the 
bullets of Slav patriots. 


Anyone who was ina position to observe attentively the reactions 
between Austria and Serbia during those latter years must surely have realised 
that something had been set in motion which could no longer be checked. It 1s 
unjust to the Austrian Government of that time to blame it now for the form and 
tenor of the ultimatum which was then presented. In a similar position and in 
similar circumstances, no other Power in the world would have acted 
otherwise. 


On her southern frontiers Austria had a relentless mortal foe who 
indulged in acts of provocation against the Dual Monarchy at intervals which 
were becoming more and more frequent. This persistent line of conduct would 
not have been relaxed until the arrival of the opportune moment for the 
destruction of the Empire. 


In Austria there was good reason to fear that, at the latest, this moment 
would come with the death of the old Emperor. Once that had taken place, it 
was quite possible that the Monarchy would not be able to offer any serious 
resistance. For some years past, the State had been so completely identified 
with the personality of Franz Joseph that, in the eyes of the great mass of the 
people, the death of this venerable personification of the Empire would be 
tantamount to the death of the Empire itself. 


Indeed, it was one of the clever artifices of Slav policy to foster the 
impression that the Austrian State owed its very existence exclusively to the 
extraordinary and rare talents of that monarch. This kind of flattery was 
particularly welcome, at the Hofburg, all the more so, because it had no 
relation whatever to the services actually rendered by the Emperor. 


No effort whatsoever was made to locate the carefully prepared sting 
which lay hidden in this glorifying praise. One fact which was entirely 
overlooked, perhaps intentionally, was that the more the Empire remained 
dependent on the so-called administrative talent of ‘the wisest monarch of all 
times,’ the more catastrophic would be the situation when Death came to knock 


179 


at the door and demand its tribute. 


Was it possible even to imagine the Austrian Empire without its 
venerable ruler? Would not the tragedy which befell Maria Theresia be 
repeated at once? 


It is unjust to governmental circles in Vienna to reproach them with 
having instigated a war which might have been prevented. The war was bound 
to come. Perhaps it might have been postponed for a year or two at the most, 
but it had always been the misfortune of German as well as of Austrian 
diplomats that they endeavoured to put off the inevitable day of reckoning, with 
the result, that they were finally compelled to deliver their blow at a most 
inopportune moment. 


There is every reason to believe that another attempt to preserve peace 
would only have served to postpone the war until an even more unpropitious 
moment. 


Those who did not wish this war ought to have had the courage to take 
the consequences of the refusal upon themselves. Those consequences must 
necessarily have meant the sacrifice of Austria, and even then war would have 
come not as a war in which all the nations were banded together against us, but 
in the form of a dismemberment of the Habsburg Monarchy. 


In that case we should have had to decide whether we should come to the 
assistance of the Habsburgs or stand aside as spectators, with our arms folded, 
and thus allow fate to run its course. 


Those who are loudest in their imprecations to-day and make a great 
parade of wisdom in judging the causes of the war are the very people whose 
activities were the most fatal factor in steering us into the war. 


For several decades previously the German Social Democrats had been 
agitating in an underhand and knavish way for war against Russia, whereas the 
German Centre Party, with, religious ends in view, had worked to make the 
Austrian State the chief centre and turning-point of German policy. 


The consequences of this folly had now to be borne. What came was 
bound to come and in no circumstances could it have been avoided. The fault 
of the German Government lay in the fact that, merely for the sake of 
preserving peace at all costs, they continued to miss the occasions that were 
favourable for action, got entangled in an alliance for the purpose of 


180 


preserving the peace of the world, and thus finally became the victim of a 
world coalition which opposed the German effort for the maintenance of peace 
and was determined to bring about the World War. 


Had the Austrian Government of that time formulated its ultimatum in 
less drastic terms, that would not have altered the situation at all, except 
inasmuch as they themselves might have become the victims of public 
indignation, for, in the eyes of the great masses, the ultimatum was toe 
moderate and certainly not excessive or brutal. Those who would deny this to- 
day are either simpletons with feeble memories or else deliberate falsehood- 
mongers. 


The war of 1914 was certainly not forced on the masses; it was even 
desired by the whole people. There was a desire to bring the general feeling of 
uncertainty to an end once and for all. And it is only in the light of this fact that 
we can understand how more than two million German men and youths 
voluntarily joined the colours, ready to shed the last drop, of their blood for 
the cause. 


For me those hours came as a deliverance from the distress that had 
weighed upon me during the days of my youth. 


I am not ashamed to acknowledge to-day that I was carried away by the 
enthusiasm of the moment and that I sank down upon my knees and thanked 
Heaven out of the fullness of my heart for the favour of having been permitted 
to live in such a time. 


The fight for freedom had broken out ona scale unparalleled in the 
history of the world. From the moment that Fate took the helm in hand, the 
conviction grew among the masses of the people that now it was not a question 
of deciding the destinies of Austria or Serbia, but that the very existence of the 
German nation itself was at stake. 


For the last time, during many years of blindness, the people saw clearly 
into the future. Therefore, almost immediately after the gigantic struggle had 
begun, an excessive enthusiasm was replaced by a more earnest and more 
fitting undertone, because the exaltation of the popular spirit was not a mere 


passing frenzy. 


It was only too necessary that the gravity of the situation should be 
recognised. At that time, there was, generally speaking, not the slightest 


181 


presentiment or conception of how long the war might last. 


People dreamed of the soldiers being home by Christmas and that then 
they would resume their daily work in peace. 


Whatever mankind desires, that it will hope for and believe in. The 
overwhelming majority of the people had long since grown weary of the 
perpetual insecurity in the general condition of public affairs. Hence, it was 
only natural that no one believed that the Austro-Serbian conflict could be 
shelved. 


Therefore, they looked forward to a radical settlement of accounts. I also 
belonged to the millions that desired this. The moment the, news of the 
Sarajevo outrage reached Munich two ideas came into my mind: First, that war 
was absolutely inevitable and, second, that the Habsburg State would now be 
forced to honour its signature to the Alliance, for what I had feared most was 
that one day Germany herself, perhaps as a result of the Alliance, would 
become involved in a conflict the direct cause of which was not Austria. 


In such a contingency, I feared that the Austrian State, for domestic 
political reasons, would find itself unable to decide in favour of its ally. The 
pro-Slav majority within the country would have immediately set to work to 
destroy any such intention and would rather have had the entire State go to rack 
and ruin than lend its ally the necessary assistance. 


But now this danger was removed. The old State was compelled to fight, 
whether it wished to do so or not. 


My own attitude towards the conflict was equally simple and clear. I 
believed that it was not a case of Austria fighting to get satisfaction from 
Serbia, but rather a case of Germany fighting for her own existence—the 
German nation for its own ‘to be’ or ‘not to be,’ for its freedom and for its 
future. 


The work of Bismarck must now be carried on. Young Germany must 
show herself worthy of the blood shed by our fathers on so many heroic fields 
of battle, from Weissenburg to Sedan and Paris, and if this struggle should 
bring us victory, our people would again rank foremost among the great 
nations. 


Only then could the German Reich assert itself as the mighty champion of 
peace, without the necessity of restricting the daily bread of its children for the 


182 


sake of maintaining that peace. 


As a boy and as a young man, I often longed for the occasion to prove 
that my national enthusiasm was not mere vapouring. Hurrahing sometimes 
seemed to me to be a kind of sin, since I had not yet by my own actions earned 
the right to do so, for, after all, who has the right to shout that triumphant cry if 
he has not won that right where there is no play-acting and where the hand of 
the goddess of Destiny puts the truth and sincerity of nations and men to her 
inexorable test? 


Just as millions of others, I felt a proud joy in being permitted to go 
through this test. I had so often sung Deutschland uber Alles and so often 
roared ‘Heil’ that, I now thought it a kind of retrospective grace that I was 
granted the right of appearing before the court of eternal justice to testify to the 
truth of those sentiments. 


One thing was clear to me from the very beginning, namely, that in the 
event of war, which now seemed inevitable, my books would have to be 
thrown aside forthwith. I also realised that my place would have to be where 
the inner voice of conscience called me. 


I had left Austria principally for political reasons. What, therefore, could 
be more natural than that I should put my political opinions into practice, now 
that the war had begun. I had no desire to fight for the Habsburg cause, but I 
was prepared to die at any time for my own kinsfolk and the Reich to which 
they really belonged. 


On August 3rd, 1914, I presented an urgent petition to His Majesty, King 
Ludwig III, requesting to be allowed to serve in a Bavarian regiment. In those 
days the Chancellery had its hands full and, therefore, I was all the more 
pleased when a day later I received the answer to my request. 


I opened the document with trembling hands, and no words of mine could 
now describe the satisfaction I felt on reading that I was instructed to report to 
a Bavarian regiment. Within a few days I was wearing that uniform which I 
was not to doff again for nearly six years. 


For me, as for every German, the most memorable period of my life now 
began. Face to face with that mighty struggle, all the past fell away into 
oblivion. With a wistful pride I look back on those days, especially because 
we are now approaching the tenth anniversary of that memorable happening. 


183 


I recall those early weeks of war when a kind fortune permitted me to 
take my place in that heroic struggle among the nations. As the scene unfolds 
itself before my mind, it seems like yesterday. I see myself among my young 
comrades on our first parade drill, and so on, until at last the day came on 
which we were to leave for the front. In common with the others, I had one 
worry during those days. This was a fear that we might arrive too late for the 
fighting at the front. Time and again, that thought disturbed me and every, 
announcement of a victorious engagement left a fear that we might be too late, 
which increased as the news of further victories arrived. 


At long last the day came when we left Munich on active service. For the 
first time in my life, I saw the Rhine, as we journeyed westwards to stand 
guard before that historic German river against its traditional and grasping 
enemy. 


As the first soft rays of the morning sun broke through the light mist and 
disclosed to us the Niederwald Statue, with one accord the whole troop-train 
broke into the strains of Die Wacht am Rhein. I then felt as if my heart would 
burst. 


Then followed a damp, cold night in Flanders. We marched in silence 
throughout the night and as the morning sun came through the mist an iron 
greeting suddenly burst above our heads. Shrapnel exploded in our midst and 
spluttered on the damp ground, but before the smoke of the explosion 
disappeared, a wild ‘Hurrah’ was shouted from two hundred throats in 
response to this, first greeting of Death. 


Then began the whistling of bullets and the booming of cannon, the 
whining and droning of shells; with eyes straining feverishly, we pressed 
forward; quicker and quicker, until we finally came to close-quarter fighting, 
beyond the beet-fields and the meadows. 


Soon the strains of a song reached us from afar. Nearer and nearer, from 
company to company, it came, and while Death began to make havoc in our 
ranks, we passed the song on to those beside us: Deutschland, Deutschland 
tiber Alles, tiber Alles in der Welt! 


After four days in the trenches we came back. Even our step was no 
longer what it had been. Boys of seventeen now looked like grown-up men. 
The rank and file of the List Regiment had not been properly trained in the art 
of warfare, but they knew how to die like old soldiers. 


184 


That was the beginning, and thus we carried on from year to year. A 
feeling of horror replaced the romantic fighting spirit. Enthusiasm cooled down 
gradually and exuberant spirits were quelled by the fear of ever-present Death. 


A time came when there arose within each one of us a conflict between 
the urge to self-preservation and the call of duty, and I had to go through that 
conflict too. As Death sought its prey everywhere and unrelentingly, a 
nameless something rebelled within the weak body and tried to introduce itself 
under the name of common sense; but in reality it was fear, which had taken on 
this cloak in order to impose itself on the individual. 


Then there began an inner persuading and warning difficult to withstand, 
and it was often only the last flicker of conscience which carried the day. But 
the more the voice which advised prudence increased its efforts and the 
clearer and persuasive its appeal, the stronger did resistance become, until 
finally the internal strife was over and the call of duty was triumphant. 


As early as the winter of 1915—16, I had gone through that inner struggle. 
The will had asserted its incontestable mastery. 


Whereas in the early days I went into the fight with a cheer and a laugh, I 
was now habitually calm and resolute, and that frame of mind endured. Fate 
might now put me to the final test without my nerves or reason giving way. The 
young, volunteer had become an old soldier. 


This same transformation took place throughout the whole Army. 
Constant fighting had aged and toughened and hardened it, and what could not 
withstand it, had perforce to give way. 


Only now was it possible to judge that Army. After two and three years 
of continuous fighting, after having been thrown into one battle after another, 
standing up stoutly against superior numbers and superior armament, suffering 
hunger and privation, the time had come when one could assess the value of 
that singular fighting force. 


For a thousand years to come nobody will dare to speak of heroism 
without recalling the German Army of the World War, and then from the dim 
past will emerge the immortal vision of those solid ranks of steel helmets that 
never flinched and never faltered, and as long as Germans live they will be 
proud to remember that these men were sons of their forefathers. 


I was then a soldier and did not wish to meddle in politics, the more so 


185 


because the time was inopportune. I still believe that the most humble stable- 
boy of those days served his country better than the best of, let us say, the 
‘parliamentarians.’ 


My hatred for those chatterers was never greater than in those days when 
all decent men who had anything to say said it point-blank in the enemy’s face, 
or, failing this, kept their mouths shut and did their duty elsewhere. 


I despised those political fellows and if I had had my way I would have 
formed them into a Labour Battalion and given them the opportunity of 
babbling amongst themselves to their hearts’ content, without offence or harm 
to decent people. 


In those days I cared nothing for politics, but I could not help forming an 
opinion on certain phenomena which affected not only the whole nation, but 
also us soldiers in particular. There were two things which caused me the 
greatest anxiety at that time, and which I had come to regard as detrimental to 
our interests. 


Shortly after our first series of victories a certain section of the press 
already began to throw cold water, drip by drip, on the enthusiasm of the 
public. At first this was not, obvious to many people. It was done under the 
mask of good intentions and a spirit of anxious care. The public was told that 
big celebrations of victories were somewhat out of place and were not worthy 
of the dignity of a great nation. The fortitude and valour of German soldiers 
were accepted facts which did not necessarily call for outbursts of rejoicing. 


Furthermore, it was asked, what would foreign opinion have to say about 
these manifestations? Would not foreign opinion react more favourably to a 
quiet and sober form of celebration rather than to all this wild jubilation? 


Surely the time had come—so the press declared—for us Germans to 
remember that this war was not of our seeking and that hence there need be no 
feeling of shame in declaring our willingness to do our share towards effecting 
an understanding among the nations. 


For this reason it would not be wise to sully the radiant deeds of our 
Army with unbecoming jubilation, for the rest of the world would not 
understand this. 


Furthermore, nothing is more appreciated than the modesty with which a 
true hero quietly and unassumingly carries on and forgets. Such was the gist of 


186 


their warning. 


Instead of catching these fellows by their long ears, dragging them to 
some ditch and looping a cord around their necks, so that the victorious 
enthusiasm of the nation should no longer offend their aesthetic sensibilities, a 
general press campaign was now allowed to go on against what was called 
‘unbecoming’ and ‘undignified’ forms of victorious celebration. 


No one seemed to have the faintest idea that when public enthusiasm is 
once damped, nothing can kindle it again when the necessity arises. This 
enthusiasm is an intoxication and must be kept up in that form. 


Without the support of this enthusiastic spirit, how would it be possible 
to endure in a struggle which, according to human standards, made 
overwhelming demands, on the spiritual stamina of the nation? 


I was only too well acquainted with the psychology of the broad masses, 
not to know, that in such cases a magnanimous ‘aestheticism’ cannot fan the fire 
which is needed to keep the iron hot.. In my eyes it was even a mistake not to 
have tried to raise the pitch of public enthusiasm still higher. Therefore, I could 
not at all understand why the contrary policy was adopted, that is to say, the 
policy of damping the public spirit. 


Another thing which irritated me was the manner in which Marxism was 
regarded and accepted. I thought that all this proved how little they knew about 
the Marxist plague. It was believed in all seriousness that the abolition of party 
distinctions during the War had made Marxism a mild and-moderate thing. 


Here there was no question of party, but of a doctrine which was being 
expounded for the express purpose of leading humanity to its destruction. The 
purpose of this doctrine was not understood, because nothing was said about 
that side of the question in our Jew-ridden universities, and because our 
supercilious bureaucratic officials did not think it worth while to read upon a 
subject which had not been prescribed in their university course. 


This mighty revolutionary trend was simply ignored by those 
‘intellectuals’ who did not deign to give it their attention. That is why State 
enterprise nearly always lags behind private enterprise. 


Of these gentry one can truly say that their maxim is: What we don’t 
know won’t bother us. 


187 


In the August of 1914 every German worker was looked upon as a 
Marxist. That was a gross error. When that fateful day dawned, the German 
worker shook off the poisonous clutches of that plague; otherwise he would not 
have been so willing and ready to fight. Yet people were stupid enough to 
imagine that Marxism had now become ‘national’ another apt illustration of the 
fact that those in authority had never taken the trouble to study the real tenor of 
the Marxist teaching. If they had done so, such foolish errors would not have 
been committed. 


Marxism, whose final objective was, is, and will continue to be, the 
destruction of all non-Jewish national States, had to witness in those days of 
July 1914 how the German working-classes, which it had been ensnaring, were 
aroused by the national spirit and rapidly ranged themselves on the side of the 
Fatherland. 


Within a few days the deceptive smoke-screen of that infamous national 
betrayal had vanished into thin air and the Jewish bosses suddenly found 
themselves alone and deserted. It was as if not a vestige had been left of that 
folly and madness with which the masses of the German people had been 
inoculated for sixty years. 


That was indeed an evil day for the betrayers of German Labour. The 
moment, however, that the leaders realised the danger which threatened them 
they pulled the magic cap of deceit over their ears and, without being 
identified, pretended to participate in the national reawakening. 


The time seemed to have arrived for proceeding against the whole 
Jewish gang of public pests. Then it was that action should have been taken 
regardless of any consequent whining or protestation. 


At one stroke, in the August of 1914, all the empty nonsense about 
international solidarity was knocked out of the heads of the German working 
classes. 


A few weeks later, instead of this stupid talk sounding in their ears, they 
heard the noise of American-manufactured shrapnel bursting above the heads 
of the marching columns, as a symbol of international comradeship. 


Now that the German worker had rediscovered the road back to his 
nation, it ought to have been the duty of any government, which had the welfare 
of the people at heart, to take this opportunity of mercilessly rooting out 


188 


everything that was opposed to the national spirit. 


While the flower of the nation’s manhood was dying at the front, those at 
home could, at least, have exterminated this vermin. But, instead of doing so, 
His Majesty the Kaiser held out his hand to these hoary criminals, thus assuring 
them of his protection and allowing them to regain their mental composure. 


Thus the viper could begin its work again. This time, certainly, more 
carefully than before, but all the more destructively. While honest people 
dreamt of reconciliation, these perjured criminals were making preparations 
for a revolution. 


Naturally, I was distressed at the half-measures which were adopted at 
that time, but I never thought it possible that the final consequences could have 
been so disastrous. 


What should have been done then? The ringleaders should have been 
thrown into gaol and tried, thus ridding the nation of them. 


Uncompromising military measures should have been adopted to root out 
the evil. Parties should have been abolished and the Reichstag brought to its 
senses at the point of the bayonet, if necessary. 


It would have been still better if the Reichstag had been dissolved 
immediately. If the Republic to-day dissolves parties when it wants to, there 
was in those days even more justification for applying such a measure, seeing; 
that the very existence of the nation was at stake. 


Of course this suggestion would give rise to the question, Is it possible 
to eradicate ideas by force of arms? Can a Weltanschauung be attacked by 
means of physical force? 


At that time, I turned these questions over and over in my mind. By 
studying analogous cases, exemplified in history, particularly those which had 
arisen from religious circumstances, I came to the following fundamental 
conclusion. Ideals and ideologies, as well as movements grounded on a 
definite spiritual foundation, whether true or false, can never be broken by the 
use of force after a certain stage, except on one condition, namely, that this use 
of force is wielded in the service of a new ideal or Weltanschauung which 
burns with a new flame. 


The application of force alone, without moral support based ona 


189 


spiritual concept, can never bring about the destruction of an ideal or arrest the 
propagation of it, unless one is ready and able ruthlessly to exterminate to a 
man the last upholders of that ideal, and also to wipe out any tradition which it 
may tend to leave behind. 


Now, in the majority of cases, the result of such a course has been to 
exclude such a State, either temporarily or forever, from the circle of States 
that are of political significance, but experience has also shown that such a 
sanguinary method of extirpation affects the better section of the population 
under the persecuting power. 


As a matter of fact, every persecution, which has no spiritual motives to 
support it, is morally unjust and raises opposition among the best elements of 
the population, so much so, that these are driven more and more to champion 
the ideas that are unjustly persecuted. 


With many individuals this arises from the sheer spirit of opposition to 
every attempt at suppressing spiritual things by brute force. 


In this way, the number of convinced adherents of the persecuted 
doctrine increases as the persecution progresses. 


Hence, the total destruction of a new doctrine can be accomplished only 
by a vast plan of extermination; but this, 1n the final analysis, means the loss of 
some of the best blood in a nation or State, and that blood is subsequently 
avenged, because such an internal and total clean-up brings about the collapse 
of the nation’s strength. Such a procedure is always condemned to futility from 
the very start, if the attacked doctrine should happen to have spread beyond a 
small circle. 


That is why, in this case, as with all other growths, the doctrine can be 
exterminated only in its earliest stages. As time goes on its powers of 
resistance increase, until at the approach of age it gives way to younger 
elements, but under another form and from other motives. 


The fact remains that nearly all attempts to exterminate a doctrine, 
without having some spiritual basis of attack against it, and also to wipe out all 
the organisations it has created, have led in many cases to the very opposite 
being achieved, and that for the following reasons. 


When sheer force is used to combat the spread of a doctrine, then that 
force must be employed systematically and persistently. This means that the 


190 


chances of success in the suppression of a doctrine lie only in the persistent 
and uniform application of the methods chosen. 


The moment hesitation is shown, and periods of tolerance alternate with 
the application of force, the doctrine against which these measures are directed 
will not only recover strength, but every successive persecution will bring to 
its support new adherents who have been shocked by the oppressive methods 


employed. 


The old adherents will become more embittered and their allegiance 
will thereby be strengthened. Therefore, when force is employed, success is 
dependent on the consistent manner in which it is used. 


This persistence, however, is nothing less than the product of definite 
spiritual convictions. Every form of force that is not supported by a, spiritual 
backing will always tie indecisive and uncertain. 


Such a force lacks the stability that can be found only in a 
Weltanschauung which has devoted champions. Such a force is the expression 
of the energy and ruthless determination of the individual temporarily in 
power, and, therefore, it is dependent on the change of persons in whose hands 
it is employed and on their characters and capacities. But there is something 
else to be said. Every Weltanschauung, whether religious or political (and it 
is sometimes difficult to say where the one ends and the other begins) fights not 
so much for the negative destruction of the opposing ideology, as for the 
positive realisation of its own ideology. 


Thus its struggle consists in attack rather than in defence. It has the 
advantage of knowing where its objective lies, as this objective represents the 
realisation of its own ideals. Inversely, it is difficult to say, when the negative 
aim for the destruction of a hostile doctrine is reached and secured. 


For this reason alone a Weltanschauung which is of an aggressive 
character is more definite in plan and more powerful and decisive in action 
than a Weltanschauung which takes up a merely defensive attitude. 


If force be used to combat a spiritual power, that force remains a 
defensive measure only so long as the wielders of it are not the champions and 
apostles of a new spiritual doctrine. 


Summing up, we arrive at the conclusion that every attempt to combat a 
Weltanschauung by means of force will turn out futile in the end, if the struggle 


19] 


fails to take the form of an offensive for the establishment of an entirely new 
spiritual order of things. 


It is only in the struggle between two Weltanschauungen that physical 
force, consistently and ruthlessly applied, will eventually turn the scales in its 
own favour. It was in this that the fight against Marxism had hitherto failed. 


This was also the reason why Bismarck’s socialist legislation failed, and 
was bound to fail in the long run, despite everything. It lacked the basis of a 
new Weltanschauung for whose development and extension the struggle might 
have been taken up. 


To say that the serving up of drivel about a so-called ‘State authority’ or 
‘law and order’ was an adequate foundation for the spiritual driving force ina 
life-and-death struggle, is only what one would expect to hear from the 
wiseacres in high official positions. 


It was because there were no adequate spiritual motives behind this 
offensive that Bismarck was compelled to hand over the administration of his 
socialist legislative measures to the judgment and approval of those circles 
which were themselves the product of the Marxist teaching. 


Thus, when the Iron Chancellor surrendered the fate of his struggle 
against Marxism to the goodwill of the bourgeois Democracy, he was leaving 
the goat to take care of the garden. But this was only the logical result of 
failure to find a fundamentally new Weltanschauung which was diametrically 
opposed to Marxism and inspired by an ardent determination to sweep all 
before it. Thus the result of the Bismarckian campaign was a bitter 
disappointment. 


Were conditions different during the World War, or at the beginning of it? 
Unfortunately, they were not. 


The more I then pondered over the necessity for a change in the attitude 
of the executive government towards Social Democracy, as the incorporation 
of contemporary Marxism, the more I realised the want of a practical substitute 
for this doctrine. 


Supposing Social Democracy were overthrown, what had one to offer 
the masses in its stead? Not a single movement existed which promised any 
success in attracting vast numbers of workers, who would be now more or less 
without leaders, and in holding these workers in its spell. 


192 


It is nonsensical to imagine that the international fanatic who has just 
severed his connection with a class party would forthwith join a bourgeois 
party or, in other words, another class organisation, for, however 
unsatisfactory these various organisations may appear to be, it cannot be 
denied that bourgeois politicians look on the distinction between classes as a 
very important factor in social life, provided, it does not turn out politically 
disadvantageous to them. If they deny this fact, they show themselves not only 
impudent but also mendacious. 


Generally speaking, one should guard against considering the broad 
masses more stupid than they really are. In political matters it frequently 
happens that feeling is a better judge than intellect. 


The opinion that the stupid international attitude of the masses provides 
proof of the unreliability of this feeling, can be immediately and definitely 
refuted by the simple fact that pacifist Democracy is no less fatuous, though it 
draws its supporters almost exclusively from bourgeois circles. 


As long as millions of citizens daily swallow what the Social 
Democratic press tells them, it will becomes these gentlemen to joke at the 
expense of the ‘Comrades,’ for, in the long run, they all swallow the same hash, 
even though it be dished up with different spices. In both cases the cook is one 
and the same—the Jew. 


One should be careful about contradicting established facts. It is an 
undeniable fact that the class question has nothing to do with questions 
concerning ideals, though that dope is administered at election time. Class 
arrogance among a large section of our people, as well as a prevailing 
tendency to look down on the manual labourer, are obvious facts and not the 
fancies of some day-dreamer. 


Nevertheless, it only illustrates the mentality of our so-called intellectual 
circles that they have not yet grasped the fact that circumstances, which are 
incapable of preventing the growth of such a plague as Marxism, are certainly 
not capable of restoring what has been lost. 


The ‘bourgeois’ parties (as they choose to call themselves) will never 
again be able to win over and hold the proletarian masses in their train. That is 
because two worlds are opposed to one another here, in part, naturally, and in 
part, artificially, divided. 


193 


Only one relationship is possible between these two camps, namely, 
open enmity. But in such a fight the younger will come off victorious, and that 
is Marxism. 


In 1914 a fight against Social Democracy was indeed quite conceivable, 
but the lack of any practical substitute made it doubtful how long the fight 
could be kept up. In this respect there was a gaping void. 


Long before the war I was of the same opinion, and that was the reason 
why I could not decide to join any of the parties then existing. 


During the World War my conviction was still further confirmed by the 
manifest impossibility of fighting Social Democracy in anything like a thorough 
way, because for that purpose there should have been a movement that was 
something more than a mere ‘parliamentary’ party, and there was none such. 


I frequently discussed that want with my intimate comrades, and it was 
then, that I first conceived the idea of taking up political work later on. As I 
have often assured my friends, it was just this that induced me, after the war to 
become active as a public speaker, in addition to my professional work, and I 
am sure that this decision was arrived at after much earnest thought. 


194 


195 


196 
