Here at the close of this volume I shall describe the first stage in the 
progress of our Movement and shall give a brief account of the problems we 
had to deal with during that period. 


In doing this I have no intention of expounding the ideals which we have 
setup as the goal of our Movement, for these ideals are so momentous in their 
significance that an exposition of them will need a whole volume. 


Therefore, I shall devote the second volume of this book to a detailed 
survey of the principles which form the programme of our Movement and I 
shall attempt to draw a picture of what we mean by the word ‘State.’ 


When I say ‘we’, in this connection, I mean to include all those hundreds 
of thousands who have fundamentally the same longing, though in the 
individual cases they cannot find adequate words to describe the vision that 
hovers before their eyes. 


It is a characteristic feature of all great reforms that, in the beginning, 
there is only one single protagonist to come forward on behalf of several 
million people. 


The final goal of a great reformation has often been the object of 
profound longing on the part of hundreds of thousands for centuries past, until 
finally one among them comes forward as a herald to announce the will of that 
multitude and become the champion of the old desire, which he now sets about 
triumphantly realising in the form of a new ideal. 


The fact that millions of our people yearn for a radical change in our 
present conditions is proved by the profound discontent which exists among 
them. 


This feeling is manifested in a thousand ways. Some express it in their 
discouragement and despair; others show it in resentment, anger and 
indignation. 


In some this profound discontent calls forth an attitude of indifference, 


371 


while it urges others to violent manifestations of wrath. 


Another indication of this feeling may be seen, on the one hand, in the 
attitude of those who abstain from voting at elections and, on the other, in the 
large numbers of those who side with the fanatical extremists of the left wing. 


It was to the latter that our young Movement had to appeal first of all. It 
was not to be an organisation for contented and satisfied people, but was meant 
to gather in all those who were suffering from profound anxiety and could find 
no peace, those who were unhappy and discontented. It was not meant to float 
on the surface of national life, but rather to push its roots deep down among the 
people. 


Looked at from the purely political point of view, the situation in 1918 
was as follows: A nation had been torn asunder. One part, which was by far 
the smaller of the two, comprised the intellectual classes of the nation, from 
which all those employed in physical labour were excluded. 


On the surface, these intellectual classes appeared to be national- 
minded, but that word meant nothing to them except a very vague and feeble 
concept of the duty to defend what they called the interests of the State, which 
in turn seemed identical with those of the dynastic regime. 


This class tried to defend its ideas and realise its aims by carrying on the 
fight with the aid of intellectual weapons, which, insufficient and superficial 
enough in the face of the brutal methods adopted by the adversary, were, of 
their very nature, bound to fail. 


With one violent blow the class which had hitherto governed was now 
struck down; it trembled with fear and accepted every humiliation imposed on 
it by the merciless victor. 


Over against this class stood the broad masses of manual labourers who 
were organised in movements with a more or less radically Marxist tendency. 
These organised masses were firmly determined to break any kind of 
intellectual resistance by the use of brute force. 


They had no nationalist tendencies whatsoever and deliberately 
repudiated the idea of advancing the interests of the nation as such. 


On the contrary, they promoted the interests of the foreign oppression. 
Numerically, this class embraced the majority of the population and, what is 


372 


more important, included all those elements of the nation without whose 
collaboration a national resurgence was not only a practical impossibility, but 
was even inconceivable. 


Even in 1918 one thing had to be clearly recognised, namely, that no 
resurgence of the German nation could take place until we had first re- 
established our national strength in relation to the outside world. 


For this purpose arms were not the preliminary necessity, though our 
bourgeois ‘statesmen’ always blathered about it being so; what was wanted 
was will-power. 


At one time the German people had more than sufficient armaments, and 
yet that did not suffice for the defence of its liberty, because it lacked that 
energy which springs from the instinct of national self-preservation and the 
will to hold one’s own. 


The best armament is only dead and worthless material as long as the 
spirit is wanting which makes men willing and determined to avail themselves 
of such weapons. Germany was rendered defenceless, not because she lacked 
arms, but because she lacked the will to keep her arms for the further 
preservation of her people. 


To-day our left-wing politicians, in particular, are constantly insisting 
that their craven-hearted and obsequious, but in reality treacherous, foreign 
policy necessarily results from the disarmament of Germany. 


To all that kind of talk the answer ought to be, ‘No, the contrary is the 
truth. Your action in delivering up the arms was dictated by your anti-national 
and criminal policy of abandoning the interests of the nation. Now you try to 
make people believe that your miserable whining is fundamentally due to the 
fact that you have no arms. Just like everything else in your conduct, this is a 
lie and a falsification of the true facts.’ 


The politicians of the right deserve exactly the same reproach. It was 
through their miserable cowardice that those ruffians of Jews who came into 
power in 1918 were able to rob the nation of its arms. 


The conservative politicians have neither right nor reason on their side 
when they cite disarmament as the cause which compelled them to adopt a 
policy of prudence (that is to say, of cowardice). 


373 


The truth is that disarmament is the result of their pusillanimity. 


Therefore, the problem of restoring Germany’s power is not a question 
of how we can manufacture arms, but rather a question of how we can foster 
that spirit which enables a people to bear arms. 


Once this spirit prevails among a people, then it will find a thousand 
ways, each of which leads to the acquisition of arms. A coward will not fire 
even a single shot when attacked, though he may be armed with ten pistols; to 
him they are of less value than a blackthorn in the hands of a man of courage. 


The problem of re-establishing the political power of our nation 1s first 
of all a problem of restoring the instinct of national self-preservation, if for no 
other reason than that every preparatory step in foreign policy and every 
weighing up by foreign Powers of the military value of a State has been proved 
by experience to be grounded not on the total amount of armaments such a State 
may possess, but rather on the moral capacity for resistance which such a State 
has, or is believed to have. 


The question whether or not a nation be desirable as an ally is 
determined not so much by the inert mass of arms which it has at hand, but by 
the obvious presence of an enthusiastic will to national self-preservation and a 
heroic courage which will fight to the last breath, for an alliance is not made 
between arms but between men. 


The British nation will, therefore, be considered as the most valuable 
ally in the world as long as it can be counted upon to show that brutality and 
tenacity in its government, as well as in the spirit of the broad masses, which 
enables it to carry on till victory any struggle upon which it once enters, no 
matter how long such a struggle pray last, no matter how great the sacrifice that 
may be necessary and no matter what the means that have to be employed—and 
all this even though the actual military equipment at hand may be utterly 
inadequate as compared with that of other nations. 


Once it is understood that the restoration of Germany is a question of 
reawakening the will to political self-preservation we shall see quite clearly 
that 1t will not be enough to win over those elements that are already national- 
minded, but that the deliberately anti-national masses must be converted to 
believe in the national ideals. 


A young movement that aims at re-establishing a German State with full 


374 


sovereign powers will therefore have to make the task of winning over the 
broad masses a special objective of its plan of campaign. 


Our so-called ‘national bourgeoisie’ are so lamentably supine, generally 
speaking, and their national spirit appears so feckless, that we may feel sure 
they will offer no serious resistance against a vigorous national foreign or 
domestic policy. 


Even though the narrow-minded German bourgeoisie should keep up a 
passive resistance when the hour of deliverance is at hand, as they did in 
Bismarck’s time, we shall never have to fear any active resistance on their 
part, because of their acknowledged and proverbial cowardice. 


It is quite different with the masses of our population, who are imbued 
with ideas of internationalism. Through the primitive roughness of their 
natures, they are disposed to accept the idea of violence, while at the same 
time their Jewish leaders are more brutal and ruthless. 


They will crush any attempt at a German revival, just as they smashed 
the German Army by striking at it from the rear. 


Above all, these organised masses will use their numerical majority in 
this parliamentarian State, not only to hinder any national foreign policy, but 
also to prevent Germany from restoring her prestige abroad and so establishing 
her desirability as an ally. 


For it is not we ourselves alone who are aware of the handicap that 
results from the existence of fifteen million Marxists, democrats, pacifists and 
followers of the Centre in our midst; foreign nations also recognise this 
internal burden which we have to bear and take it into their calculations when 
estimating the value of a possible alliance with us. 


Nobody would wish to form an alliance with a State where the active 
portion of the population is at least passively opposed to any resolute foreign 
policy. 


The situation is made still worse by reason of the fact that the leaders of 
those parties which were responsible for the betrayal of the nation are ready to 
oppose any and every attempt at a revival, simply because they want to retain 
the positions they now hold. 


According to the laws that govern human history, it is inconceivable that 


375 


the German people could resume the place they formerly held without 
retaliating on those who were both cause and occasion of the collapse that 
involved the ruin of our State. 


Before the judgment seat of posterity November 1918 will not be 
regarded as a simple rebellion but as high treason against the country. 


Therefore, it is not possible to think of re-establishing German 
sovereignty and political independence without at the same time reconstructing 
a united front within the nation. 


Looked at from the standpoint of practical ways and means, it seems 
absurd to think of liberating Germany from foreign bondage as long as the 
masses of the people are not willing to support such an ideal of freedom. 


Considering this problem from the purely military point of view, 
everybody, and in particular every officer, will agree that a war cannot be 
waged against an outside enemy by battalions of students; but that, together 
with the brains of the nation, the physical strength of the nation is also 
necessary. 


Furthermore, it must be remembered that the nation would be robbed of 
irreplaceable assets, if the national defence were composed only of the 
intellectual circles, as they are called. 


The young German intellectuals who joined the volunteer regiments and 
fell on the, battlefields of Flanders in the autumn of 1914 were bitterly missed 
later on. 


They were the most valuable treasure which the nation possessed and 
their loss could not be made good in the course of the war. 


It is not only the struggle itself which could not be waged if the working 
classes of the nation did not join the storm battalions, but the necessary 
technical preparations could not be made without a united will and a common 
front within the nation itself: 


Our nation which has to exist disarmed under tie thousand eyes 
appointed by the Versailles Peace Treaty, cannot make any technical 
preparations for the recovery of its freedom and human independence, until the 
whole army of spies employed within the country is cut down to those few 
whose inborn baseness would lead them to betray anything and everything for 


376 


the proverbial thirty pieces of silver. 


We can deal with such people, but the millions, who are opposed to the 
national revival, simply because of their political opinions, constitute an 
insurmountable obstacle. 


At least, the obstacle will remain insurmountable, as long as the cause of 
their opposition, which is international Marxism, is not overcome and its 
teachings banished from both their hearts and minds. 


From whatever point of view we may examine the possibility of 
recovering our independence as a State and as a nation, whether we consider 
the problem from the standpoint of technical rearmament or from that of the 
actual struggle itself, the necessary prerequisite always remains the same. 


This prerequisite is that the broad masses of the people must first be won 
over to accept the principle of our national independence. 


If we do not regain our external freedom, every step forward in domestic 
reform will be at best an augmentation of our productive powers for the benefit 
of those nations that look upon us as a colony to be exploited. 


The surplus produced by any so-called economic revival would only go 
into the hands of our international supervisors, and any social betterment 
would at best increase our output, to the advantage of those persons. 


No cultural progress can be made by the German nation, because such 
progress is too much bound up with the political independence and dignity of a 
people. 


Since, therefore, we can find a satisfactory solution for the problem of 
Germany’s future only by winning over the broad masses of our people for the 
support of the national idea, this must be considered the highest and most 
important task to be accomplished by a movement which does not strive 
merely to satisfy the needs of the moment, but considers itself bound to 
examine in the light of future results everything it decides to do or to refrain 
from doing. 


As early as 1919 we were convinced that to make the masses national- 
minded would have to constitute the first and paramount aim of the new 
movement. From the tactical standpoint, this decision brought with it a certain 
number of obligations. 


17 


(1) No social sacrifice could be considered too great in this effort to win 
over the masses for the national revival. 


Whatever economic concessions are granted to-day to employees are 
negligible when compared with the benefit to be reaped by the whole nation if 
such concessions contribute to bring back the masses of the people once more 
to an appreciation of their own nationality. 


Nothing but meanness and short-sightedness, which are characteristics 
that are unfortunately only too prevalent among our employers, could prevent 
people from recognising that in the long run no economic improvement and 
therefore no rise, in profits are possible unless the internal volkisch solidarity 
of our nation be restored. 


If the German trade-unions had defended the interests of the working- 
classes uncompromisingly during the War; 


- if, even during the War, they had used the weapon of the strike to force 
the industrialists (who were greedy for higher dividends) to grant the demands 
of the workers for whom the unions acted; 


- if at the same time they had stood up as good Germans for the defence 
of the nation as stoutly as for their own claims; and 


- if they had given as unstintedly to their country that which was their 
country’s due—then the War would never have been lost. 


How ludicrously insignificant would all, and even the greatest, economic 
concessions have been as compared with the tremendous importance of such a 
victory! 


For a movement which would restore the German worker to the German 
people it is, therefore, absolutely necessary to understand clearly that 
economic sacrifices must be considered negligible in such cases, provided, of 
course, that they do not go the length of endangering the independence and 
stability of the national economic system. 


(2) The education of the masses along national lines can be carried out 
only indirectly, by improving social conditions, for only by sucha process can 
the economic conditions be created which enable everybody to share in the 
cultural life of the nation. 


378 


(3) The making of the broad masses national-minded can never be 
achieved by half-measures—that is to say, by feebly insisting on what is called 
the objective side of the question—but only by a ruthless and fanatically one- 
sided insistence on the aim which must be achieved. 


This means that a people cannot be made ‘national’ in the sense of that 
word as accepted by our bourgeois class to-day—that 1s to say, nationalism 
with many reservations—but ‘national’ in the vehement and extreme sense. 


Poison can be overcome only by a counter-poison and only the supine 
bourgeois mind could think that the Kingdom of Heaven can be attained by a 
compromise. 


The broad masses of a nation are not made up of professors and 
diplomats. Since these masses have but little acquaintance with abstract ideas, 
their reactions lie more in the domain of the feelings, which determine their 
positive or their negative attitude as the case may be. 


They are susceptible only to a manifestation of strength which comes 
definitely either from the positive or the negative side, but they are never 
susceptible to any half-hearted attitude that wavers between one pole and the 
other. 


The emotional grounds of their attitude furnish the reason for their 
extraordinary stability. It is always more difficult to fight successfully against 
faith than against knowledge. 


Love is less subject to change than respect. Hatred is more lasting than 
mere aversion. None of the tremendous revolutions which this world has 
witnessed, have been brought about by a scientific revelation, which has 
moved the masses, but always by an ardour which has inspired them, and often 
by a kind of hysteria which has urged them to action. 


Whoever wishes to win over the masses must find the key that will open 
the door to their hearts. It is not objectivity, which is weakness, but 
determination and strength. 


(4) The soul of the masses can be won only if those who lead the 
movement are determined not merely to carry through the positive struggle for 
their own aims, but are also determined to destroy the enemy that opposes 
them. 


379 


When they see an uncompromising onslaught against an adversary, the 
people have at all times taken this as a proof that right is on the side of the 
aggressor. 


But if the aggressor should go only half-way and fail to push home his 
success by driving his opponent entirely from the scene of action, the people 
will look upon this as a sign that the aggressor is uncertain of the justice of his 
own cause and, that his half-way policy may even be an acknowledgment that 
his cause is unjust. 


The masses are but a part of Nature herself. Their feeling is such that 
they cannot understand mutual handshakings between men who are declared 
enemies. 


Their wish is to see the stronger side win and the weaker wiped out, or 
subjected unconditionally to the will of the stronger. 


It is possible to succeed in making the masses national-minded, only if, 
positive though the struggle to win the soul of the people may be, those who 
spread the international poison among them are exterminated. 


(5) All the great problems of our time are problems of the moment and 
are only the results of certain definite causes, and among all these there is only 
one that has a profoundly causal significance. 


This is the problem of preserving the pure racial stock among the people. 
Human vigour or decline depends on the blood. 


Nations that are not aware of the importance of their racial stock, or 
which neglect to preserve it, are like men who would try to educate the pug- 
dog to do the work of the greyhound, not understanding that neither the speed of 
the greyhound nor the imitative faculties of the poodle are inborn qualities 
which cannot be drilled into the one or the other by any form of training. 


A people that fails to preserve the purity of its racial blood thereby 
destroys the unity of the soul of the nation in all its manifestations. 


A disintegrated national character is the inevitable consequence of a 
process of disintegration in the blood, and the change which takes place in the 
spiritual and creative faculties of a people is only an outcome of the change 
that has modified its racial substance. If we are to free the German people from 
all those non-characteristic failings and traits we must first get rid of alien 


380 


causes of these traits and failings. The German nation will never revive unless 
the racial problem, and with it, the Jewish question, is taken into account and 
dealt with. 


The racial problem furnishes the key, not only to the understanding of 
human history, but also to the understanding of every kind of human culture. 


(6) By incorporating in the national community the broad masses of our 
people (who are now in the international camp) we do not mean to renounce 
the principle that the interests of the various trades and professions must be 
safeguarded. 


Divergent interests in the various branches of labour and in the trades 
and professions are not the same as a division between the various classes, but 
rather a natural feature inherent in our economic life. 


Vocational grouping does not clash in the least with the idea of a national 
community, for it means national unity in regard to all those problems that 
affect the life of the nation as such. 


To incorporate in the national community, or in the State, a stratum of the 
people which has now formed a social class, the standing of the upper classes 
must not be lowered, but that of the lower classes must be raised. 


The class which carries through this process is never the upper class, but 
rather the lower one which is fighting for equality of rights. 


The bourgeoisie of to-day was not incorporated in the State through 
measures enacted by the feudal nobility, but only through its own energy and 
leaders who had sprung from its own ranks. 


The German worker cannot be raised from his present status and 
incorporated in the German folk-community by means of goody-goody 
meetings where people talk about the brotherhood of the people, but rather by a 
systematic improvement in the social and cultural life of the worker, until the 
yawning gulf between him and the other classes can be bridged. 


A movement which has this for its aim must try to recruit its followers 
mainly from the ranks of the working class. It must include members of the 
intellectual classes only in so far as such members have rightly understood, 
and accepted without reserve, the ideal towards which the movement is 
striving. This process of transformation and reunion cannot be completed 


381 


within ten or twenty years; it will take several generations, as the history of 
such movements has shown. 


The most difficult obstacle to the inclusion of our contemporary worker 
in the national folk-community does not consist so much in the fact that he 
fights for the interests of his fellow-workers, but rather in the influence of his 
international leaders and their anti-national and non-patriotic attitude which he 
has accepted. 


If they were inspired by the principle of devotion to the nation in all that 
concerns its political and social welfare, the trade-unions would make those 
millions of workers most valuable members of the national community, 
irrespective of their own individual struggle on behalf of economic interests. 


A movement which sincerely endeavours to bring the German worker 
back into his folk community, and rescue him from the folly of internationalism, 
must wage a vigorous campaign against certain notions that are prevalent 
among the industrialists. 


One of these notions is that according to the concept of the folk- 
community, the employee is obliged to surrender all his economic rights to the 
employer and, further, that the workers would come into conflict with the folk- 
community, if they should attempt to defend their own justified and vital 
interests. 


Those who try to propagate such a notion are deliberate liars. The folk- 
community imposes obligations not only on the one side, but also on the other. 


A worker certainly does something which is contrary to the spirit of the 
folk-community, if he acts entirely on his own initiative and puts forward 
exaggerated demands, without taking the common weal or the maintenance of 
the national economic structure into consideration. 


But an industrialist also acts against the spirit of the folk-community, if 
he adopts inhumane methods of exploitation and misuses the working capacity 
of the nation and, by sweating the workers, amasses million for himself. 


He has no right to call himself ‘national’ and no right to talk of a folk- 
community, for he is only an unscrupulous egotist who sows the seeds of social 
discontent and provokes future conflicts which are bound to prove injurious to 
the interests of the country. 


382 


The reservoir from which the young movement has to draw its members 
will be first of all the working classes. These classes must be delivered from 
the clutches of the international mania. 


Their social distress must be eliminated. They must be raised above 
their present cultural level, which is deplorable and transformed into a 
resolute and valuable factor in the folk-community, inspired by national ideas 
and national sentiment. 


If, among those intellectual circles that are nationalist in their outlook, 
men can be found who genuinely love their people and look forward eagerly to 
the future of Germany, and at the same time have a sound grasp of the 
importance of a struggle, whose aim is to win over the soul of the masses, such 
men will be cordially welcomed in the ranks of the movement. 


They can serve as a valuable intellectual support in the work that is to be 
done. But this movement can never aim at recruiting its membership from the 
unthinking herd of bourgeois voters. If it did so, the movement would be 
burdened with a mass of people whose whole mentality would only help to 
paralyse the efforts of the campaign to win over the broad masses. 


In theory it may be very fine to say that the broad masses ought to be 
influenced by a combined leadership of the upper and lower social strata 
within the framework of the one movement; but notwithstanding all this, the 
fact remains that, though it may be possible to exercise a psychological 
influence on the bourgeois classes and to arouse some enthusiasm or even 
awaken some understanding among them by public demonstrations, it is 
impossible to eliminate those characteristics, or rather faults, which have 
grown and developed in the course of centuries. 


The difference between the cultural levels of the two groups and 
between their respective attitudes towards economic questions is still so great 
that it would turn out a hindrance to the movement the moment the first 
enthusiasm aroused by demonstrations calmed down. 


Finally, it is not part of our programme to transform the nationalist camp 
itself, but, rather to win over those who are anti-national in their outlook. It is 
this point of view which must finally determine the tactics of the whole 
movement. 


(7) This one-sided, but, consequently, clear and definite attitude must be 


383 


manifested in the propaganda of the movement; and, on the other hand, this 
clarity is absolutely necessary in order to make the propaganda itself effective. 


If propaganda is to be of service to the movement it must be addressed to 
one side alone; for if it should vary the direction of its appeal it will not be 
understood in the one camp and may be rejected by the other as obvious and 
uninteresting, for the intellectual background of the two camps that come into 
question is very different. 


Even the manner in which something is presented and the tone in which 
particular details are emphasised cannot have the same effect on those two 
strata that belong respectively to the opposite extremes of the social structure. 


If the propaganda should refrain from using primitive forms of 
expression, it will not appeal to the sentiment of the masses. 


If, on the other hand, it conforms to the crude sentiments of the masses in 
its words and gestures, the intellectual circles will be averse to it because of 
its crudity and vulgarity. 


Among a hundred men who call themselves orators, there are scarcely 
ten who are capable of speaking with effect to an audience of street-sweepers, 
mechanics, navvies, etc., to-day and of expounding the same subject with equal 
effect to-morrow to an audience of university professors and students. 


Among a thousand public speakers there may be only one who can 
address a mixed audience of mechanics and professors in the same hall in such 
a way that his statements can be fully comprehended by each group while, at 
the same time, he effectively influences both to such an extent that they are 
carried away by a common enthusiasm. It must always be remembered that in 
most cases even the most beautiful idea embodied in a sublime theory can be 
brought home to the public only by men of middling ability. 


The thing that matters here 1s not the vision of the man of genius who 
created the great ideal, but rather what his apostles tell the broad masses, how 
they do this and with what degree of success. 


Social Democracy and the whole Marxist movement were particularly 
qualified to attract the great masses of the nation, because of the uniformity of 
the public to which they addressed their appeal. 


The more limited and narrow their ideas and arguments, the easier it was 


384 


for the masses to grasp and assimilate them, for those ideas and arguments 
were well adapted to a low level of intelligence. 


These considerations led the new movement to adopt the following clear 
and simple line of policy. In its message as well as in its forms of expression 
the propaganda had to be kept on a level with the intelligence of the masses, 
and its value had to be measured only by the actual success it achieved. 


At a public meeting where the great masses are gathered together the best 
speaker is not he whose way of approaching a subject is most akin to the spirit 
of those intellectuals who may happen to be present, but the speaker who 
knows how to win the hearts of the masses. 


An educated man who is present and who finds fault with an address 
because he considers it to be on an intellectual plane that is too low, though he 
himself has witnessed its effect on the lower intellectual groups whose 
adherence has to be won, only shows himself completely incapable of rightly 
judging the situation and thereby proves that he can be of no use in the new 
movement. 


Only those intellectuals can be of use to a movement who understand its 
mission and its aims so well that they have learned to judge the methods of 
propaganda exclusively by the success obtained and never by the impression 
which those methods, make on them personally. 


Propaganda is not meant to serve as an entertainment for those people 
who already have a nationalist outlook; its purpose is to win the adhesion of 
those who have hitherto been hostile to the nation, but who are, nevertheless, 
of our own blood and race. 


In general, those considerations of which I have given a brief summary in 
the chapter on ‘War Propaganda’ became the guiding rules and principles 
which determined the kind of propaganda we were to adopt in our campaign 
and the method by which we were to carry it out. 


The success that has been obtained proves that our decision was right. 


(8) The ends which any political reform movement sets out to attain can 
never be reached by trying to educate the public or influence those in power, 
but only by getting political power into its hands. 


It is not only the right, but the duty, of the protagonists of any world- 


385 


shattering ideal to secure control of such means as will enable them to realise 
that idea. 


In this world, success is the standard whereby we can decide whether 
such an undertaking was right or wrong, and by the word ‘success’ in this 
connection I do not mean such a success as the mere acquisition of power in 
1918, but the beneficial results of such an acquisition of power. 


A coup d’etat cannot, therefore, he considered successful if, as many 
empty-headed critics in Germany now, believe, the revolutionaries succeeded 
in seizing control of the State, but only 1f, in comparison with the state of 
affairs under the old regime, the lot of the nation has been improved when the 
aims and intentions on which the revolution was based have been put into 
practice. 


This certainly does not apply to the German Revolution, as the coup was 
called, which was effected by a gang of bandits in the autumn of 1918. 


But if the acquisition of political power be a requisite preliminary for 
the practical realisation of the ideals that inspire a reform movement, then any 
movement which aims at reform must, from the very first day of its activity, be 
considered by its leaders as a movement of the masses and not as a literary 
tea-club or an association of Philistines who meet to play ninepins. 


(9) The nature and internal organisation of the new movement make it 
anti-parliamentarian. 


That is to say, it rejects in general, and in its own structure, the principle 
according to which decisions are to be taken on the vote of the majority and 
according to which the leader is only the executor of the will and opinion of 
others. 


The movement lays down the principle that, in the smallest, as well as in 
the greatest, problems, one person must have absolute authority and bear all 
responsibility. 


In the movement the practical consequences of this principle are as 
follows: The president of a local group is appointed by the head of the group 
immediately above his in authority. He is then the responsible leader of his 


group. 


All the committees are subject to his authority and not he to theirs. There 


386 


is no such thing as committees that vote, but only committees that work. 


This work is allotted by the responsible leader, who is the president of 
the group. The same principle applies to the higher organisations—the Bezirk 
(district), the Kreis (urban circuit) and the Gau (the region). 


In each case the president is appointed from above and is invested with 
full authority and executive power. Only the leader of the whole party is 
elected, at the general meeting of the members, but he is the sole leader of the 
movement. 


All the committees are responsible to him, but he is not responsible to 
the committees. His decision is final, but he bears the whole responsibility for 
it. 

The members of the movement are entitled to call him to account by 


means of a new election, or to remove him from office, if he has violated the 
principles of the movement or has not served its interests adequately. 


He is then replaced by a more capable man, who is invested with the 
same authority and obliged to bear the same responsibility. 


One of the highest duties of the movement is to make this principle valid 
not only within its own ranks, but also for the whole State. 


The man who becomes leader is invested with supreme and unlimited 
authority, but he also has to bear the final and heaviest responsibility. 


The man who has not the courage to shoulder responsibility for his 
actions is not fitted to be a leader. Only a man of heroic mould can have the 
vocation for such a task. 


Human progress and human culture are not founded by the multitude. 
They are exclusively the work of personal genius and personal efficiency. 


To cultivate these and give them their due, is one of the conditions 
necessary for the regaining of the prestige and power of our nation. 


Because of this principle, the movement must necessarily be anti- 
parliamentarian: and if it takes part in a parliamentary institution 1t must be 
only for the purpose of destroying this institution from within; in other words, 
we wish to do away with an institution which we must look upon as one of the 
gravest symptoms of human decline. 


387 


(10) The movement steadfastly refuses to take up any stand in regard to 
problems which are either outside of its sphere of political work or seem to 
have no fundamental importance for it. 


It does not aim at bringing about a religious reformation, but rather a 
political re-organisation of our people. 


It looks upon the two religious denominations as equally valuable 
mainstays for the existence of our people, and therefore it makes war on all 
those parties which would degrade the foundation on which the religious and 
moral stability of our people is based, by exploiting it in the service of party 
interests. 


Finally, the movement does not aim at re-establishing any one form of 
State or trying to destroy another, but rather at making those fundamental 
principles prevail without which no republic and no monarchy can exist for 
any length of time. 


The movement does not consider its mission to be the establishment of a 
monarchy or the preservation of the Republic but rather the creation of a 
Germanic State. 


The problem of the external form of this State, that is to say, its final 
shape, is not of fundamental importance. It is a problem which must be solved 
in the light of what seems practical and opportune. Once a nation has 
understood and appreciated the great problems that affect its inner existence, 
the question of formalities will never lead to internal conflict. 


(11) The problem of the inner organisation of the movement 1s not one of 
principle, but of expediency. 


The best kind of organisation is not that which places a large 
intermediary apparatus between the leadership of the movement and the 
individual followers, but rather that which functions with the smallest possible 
intermediary apparatus. 


For it is the task of such an organisation to transmit a certain idea, which 
originated in the brain of one individual, to a multitude of people and to 
supervise the manner in which this idea is being put into practice. 


From any and every point of view, therefore, the organisation is only a 
necessary evil. At best it is only a means to an end, at the worst, an end in 


388 


itself. 


Since the world produces more mechanically-minded beings than 
idealists, it will always be easier to develop the form of an organisation than 
its substance, that is to say, the ideals which it is meant to serve. 


The march of any ideal which strives towards practical fulfilment, and in 
particular those ideals which are of a reformatory character, may be roughly 
sketched as follows: 


A creative idea takes shape in the mind of somebody who thereupon 
feels himself called upon to transmit this idea to the world. He propounds his 
faith to others and thereby gradually gains a certain number of followers. 


This direct and personal way of promulgating one’s ideas among one’s 
contemporaries is the most natural and the best, but as the movement develops 
and secures a large number of followers it gradually becomes impossible for 
the original founder of the doctrine on which the movement is based, to carry 
on his propaganda personally among his many followers and at the same time 
to guide the course of the movement. 


According as the community of followers increases, direct 
communication between the head and the individual followers becomes 
impossible. 


This intercourse must then take place through an intermediary apparatus 
introduced into the framework of the movement. Thus ideal conditions of 
intercommunication cease, and organisation has to be introduced as a 
necessary evil. 


Small subsidiary groups come into existence, as in the political 
movement, for example, where the local groups represent the germ-cells out of 
which the organisation develops later. 


But such subdivisions must not be introduced into the movement until the 
authority of the spiritual founder, and of the school he has created, are accepted 
without reservation. 


Otherwise the movement would run the risk of becoming split up by 
divergent doctrines. In this connection too much emphasis cannot be laid on the 
importance of having one geographic centre as the chief seat of the movement. 


389 


Only the existence of such a seat, or centre, around which a magic spell 
such as that of Mecca or Rome is woven, can supply a movement, with that 
permanent driving force which has its source in the internal unity of the 
movement, and the recognition of one head as representing this unity. 


When the first germ-cells of the organisation are being formed, care must 
always be taken not only to insist on the importance of the place where the idea 
originated, but to invest it with a sublime significance. 


The creative, moral and practical significance of the place whence the 
movement went forth and from which it is governed must be stressed in the 
same measure in which the original cells of the movement become so numerous 
that they have to be regrouped into larger units in the structure of the 
organisation. 


When, the number of individual followers becomes so large that direct 
personal, contact with the head of the movement is out of the question, we have 
to form those first local groups. 


As these groups multiply it becomes necessary to establish higher cadres 
in which the local groups are organised. Examples of such cadres in the 
political organisation are those of the region (Gau) and the district (Bezirk). 


Though it may be easy enough to maintain the original central authority 
over the lowest groups, it is much more difficult to do so in relation to the 
higher units of organisation which have now developed. 


Yet we must succeed in doing so, for this is an indispensable condition if 
the unity of the movement is to be guaranteed and its ideal realised. 


Finally, when those larger intermediary organisations have to be 
combined in new and still higher units, it becomes increasingly difficult to 
maintain the absolute supremacy of the original seat of the movement and its 
school of thought. 


Consequently, the mechanical forms of an organisation must only be 
introduced if, and in so far as, the spiritual authority and the ideas of the 
central seat of the organisation are shown to be firmly established. 


In the case of a political structure, this authority can frequently be 
guaranteed only by the exercise of power. 


390 


Having taken all these considerations into account, the following 
principles were laid down for the inner structure of the movement: 


(a) That at the beginning all activity should be concentrated in one town: 
namely, Munich. That a group of absolutely reliable followers should be 
trained and a school founded which would subsequently help to propagate the 
ideal of the Movement. 


That the necessary authority for later should be established by gaining 
many and visible successes in this particular place. 


To secure name and fame for the Movement and its leader it was 
necessary, not only to give, in this one town, a striking example to shatter the 
belief that the Marxist doctrine was invincible, but also to show that a counter- 
doctrine was possible. 


(b) That local groups should not be established before the supremacy of 
the central authority in Munich was definitely established and acknowledged. 


(c) That District, Regional, and Provincial groups should be formed not 
only after the need for them had become evident, but after the supremacy of the 
central authority has been satisfactorily guaranteed. 


Further, that the creation of subordinate units should depend on whether 
or not persons could be found who were qualified to undertake the leadership 
thereof. 


Here there are two alternatives: 


(a) That the movement should have the necessary funds to attract and 
train intelligent people who would be capable of becoming leaders. 


The personnel thus obtained could then be systematically employed 
according as the tactical situation and the necessity for efficiency demanded. 


This solution is the easier and the more expeditious, but it necessitates 
large financial resources, for this group of leaders can work for the Movement 
only if they are paid a salary. 


(b) Because the Movement, owing to lack of funds, is not in a position to 
employ paid officials it must begin by depending on voluntary helpers. 
Naturally this solution is slower and more difficult. 


391 


It means that the leaders of the Movement have to allow large districts to 
remain uncanvassed, unless in these respective districts a member comes 
forward who is capable and willing to place himself at the service of the 
central authority for the purpose of organising and directing the Movement in 
the region concerned. 


It may happen that in extensive regions no such leader can be found, but 
that at the same time in other regions two or three or even more persons appear 
whose capabilities are almost on a level. 


The difficulty which this situation involves is very great and can be 
overcome only with the passage of time. 


The necessary condition for the establishment of any branch of the 
organisation must always be that a person can be found who 1s capable of 
fulfilling the functions of a leader. 


Just as the army and all its various units of organisation are useless if 
there are no officers, so any political organisation is worthless, if it has not the 
right kind of leaders. If an inspiring personality who has the gift of leadership 
cannot be mound for the organisation and direction of a local group it 1s better 
for the Movement to refrain from establishing such a group, than to run the risk 
of failure after the group has been founded. 


A necessary qualification for leadership is the possession, not only of 
will-power, but of efficiency, and will-power and energy must be considered 
as more important than the intellect of a genius. 


The most valuable association of qualities is a combination of talent, 
determination and perseverance. 


(12) The future of a movement is determined by the devotion, and even 
intolerance, with which its members fight for their cause. 


They must feel convinced that their cause alone is just, and they must 
carry it through to success, as against other similar organisations in the same 
field. 


It is quite erroneous to believe that the strength of a movement must 
increase if it is to be combined with other movements of a similar kind. 


Any expansion resulting from such a combination will of course mean an 


392 


increase in external development, which superficial, observers might consider 
to be also an increase of power; but in reality the movement thus admits 
outside elements which will subsequently weaken its constitutional vigour. 
Though it may be said that one movement is identical in character with another, 
in reality no such identity exists. 


If it did exist, then in practice there would not be two movements, but 
only one. No matter what the difference may be, even if it consists only in the 
measure in which the capabilities of the one set of leaders differ from those of 
the other, it is still there. 


It is against the natural law of all development to couple dissimilar 
organisms; for the law is that the stronger must overcome the weaker and, 
through the struggle necessary for such a conquest, increase the constitutional 
vigour and effective strength of the victor. 


By amalgamating political organisations that are approximately alike, 
certain immediate advantages may be gained, but advantages thus gained are 
bound in the long run to become the cause of internal weaknesses which will 
make their appearance later on. 


A movement can become great only if the unhampered development of its 
internal strength be safeguarded and steadfastly augmented, until victory over 
all rivals is secured. 


One may safely say that the strength of a movement and its right to 
existence can be developed only as long as it remains true to the principle that 
struggle is a necessary condition of its progress and that it has exceeded the 
maximum limit of its strength at that moment in which complete victory, 1s 
within its grasp. 


Therefore, a movement must not strive to obtain successes that will be 
only immediate and transitory, but it must show a spirit of uncompromising 
perseverance in carrying on a long struggle which will secure for it a long 
period of inner growth. 


All those movements which owe their expansion to a so-called 
combination of similar organisms, which means that their external strength is 
due to a policy of compromise, are like plants whose growth is forced ina 
hothouse. 


They shoot up rapidly, but they lack that inner strength which enables the 


393 


natural plant to grow into a tree that will withstand the storms of centuries. 


The greatness of every powerful organisation which embodies a creative 
ideal lies in the spirit of religious devotion and intolerance with which it 
stands out against all others, because it has an ardent faith in its own cause. 


If an ideal is right in itself and, furnished with the fighting weapons I 
have mentioned, wages war on this earth, then it is invincible and persecution 
will only add to its internal strength. 


The greatness of Christianity did not arise from attempts to make 
compromises with those philosophical opinions of the ancient world which 
had some resemblance to its own doctrine, but in the unrelenting and fanatical 
proclamation and defence of its own teaching. 


The apparent advance that a movement makes by associating itself with 
other movements will be easily reached and surpassed by the steady increase 
of strength which a doctrine and its organisation acquires if 1t remains 
independent and fights its own cause alone. 


(13) The movement ought to educate its adherents on the principle that 
struggle must not be considered a necessary evil, but as something desirable in 
itself. 


Therefore, they must not be afraid of the hostility which their adversaries 
manifest towards them, but they must take it as a necessary condition on which 
their own right to existence is based. 


They must not try to avoid being hated by those who are the enemies of 
our people and our Weltanschauung, but must welcome such hatred. 


Lies and calumnies are part of the method which the enemy employs to 
express his hatred. The man who is not opposed, vilified and slandered in the 
Jewish press is not a staunch German and not a true National Socialist. 


The best standard whereby the sincerity of his convictions, his character 
and strength of will can be measured is the hostility which his name arouses 
among the mortal enemies of our people. 


The followers of the Movement, and indeed the whole nation, must be 
reminded again and again of the fact that, through the medium of his 
newspapers, the Jew is always spreading falsehood. If he tells the truth on 


394 


certain occasions, it is only for the purpose of masking some greater deception, 
which turns the apparent truth into a deliberate falsehood. 


The Jew is past master in the art of lying. Falsehood and duplicity are 
the weapons with which he fights. Every calumny and falsehood published by 
the Jews are honourable scars borne by our comrades. He whom they decry 
most is nearest to our hearts and he whom they mortally hate is our best friend. 


If a comrade of ours opens a Jewish newspaper in the morning and does 
not find himself vilified there, then he has wasted the previous day, for, if he 
had achieved something, he would be persecuted, slandered, derided, and 
abused. 


Those who effectively combat this mortal enemy of our people, who is at 
the same time the enemy of an Aryan peoples and all culture, can only expect to 
arouse: opposition on the part of this race and become the object of its 
slanderous attacks. 


When these truths become part of the flesh and blood, as it were, of our 
members, then the Movement will be unshakable and invincible. 


(14) The Movement must use every possible means to cultivate respect 
for the individual personality. It must never forget that all human values are 
based on personal values, and that every idea and achievement is the fruit of 
the creative power of one man. 


We must never forget that admiration for everything that is great, 1s not 
only a tribute to one creative personality, but that all those who feel such 
admiration become thereby united under one covenant. 


Nothing can take the place of the individual, especially if the individual 
embodies in himself not the mechanical element, but the element of cultural 
creative ability. 


No pupil can take the place of the master in completing a great picture 
which he has left unfinished; and just in the same way no substitute can take the 
place of the great poet or thinker, the great statesman or the great general, for 
their activity lies in the realm of artistic creative ability which can never be 
mechanically acquired, because it is an innate and divine gift. 


The greatest revolutions and the greatest achievements of this world, its 
greatest cultural works and the immortal creations of great statesmen, are 


395 


inseparably bound up with one name which stands as a symbol for them in each 
respective case. 


Failure to pay tribute to one of those great spirits signifies a neglect of 
that enormous source, of power which lies in the remembrance of all great men 
and women. The Jew is well aware of this. He, whose great men have always 
been great only in their efforts to destroy mankind and its civilisation, takes 
good care that they are worshipped as idols. 


The Jew tries to belittle the respect in which nations hold their own great 
men and women. He stigmatises this respect as ‘the cult of personality.’ 


As soon as a nation has so far lost its courage as to submit to this 
impudent defamation on the part of the Jew, it renounces the most important 
source of its own inner strength. 


This inner force cannot arise from a policy of pandering to the masses, 
but only from the worship of men of genius, with its uplifting and ennobling 
influence, to any of our speakers. 


Consider that only six or seven poor devils who were entirely unknown 
came together to found a movement which should succeed in doing what the 
great mass-parties had failed to do, namely, to reconstruct a German Reich, 
having even greater power and glory than before. 


We should have been very pleased if we had been attacked or even 
ridiculed, but the most depressing fact was that nobody paid any attention to us 
whatsoever. This utter lack of interest in us caused me great mental distress at 
that time. 


When I entered the circle of these men there was not yet any question of 
a party or a movement. I have already described the impression which was 
made on me when I first came into contact with that small organisation. 


Subsequently, I had time and opportunity, to study the impossible form of 
this so-called party. The picture was indeed depressing and discouraging. It 
was a party only in name and absolutely devoid of significance. 


The committee consisted of all the party members. Somehow or other, it 
seemed just the kind of thing we were about to fight against—a miniature 
parliament. 


396 


The voting system was employed. When the members of the great 
parliaments cried until they were hoarse, at least they shouted over problems 
of importance, but here this small circle engaged in interminable discussions 
as to the form in which they might answer the letters which they were delighted 
to have received. 


Needless to say, the public knew nothing of all this. In Munich nobody 
knew of the existence of such a party, not even by name, except our own few 
members and their small circle of acquaintances. 


Every Wednesday, what was called a committee meeting was held in one 
of the cafés, and a debate was arranged for one evening each week. 


In the beginning, all the members, of the ‘movement’ were also members 
of the committee; therefore the same persons always turned up at both 
meetings. 


The first step that had to be taken was to extend the narrow limits of this 
small circle and get new members, but, above all, it was necessary to utilise 
all the means at our command for the purpose of making the movement known. 


We chose the following methods. We attempted to hold a ‘meeting’ every 
month, and later, every fortnight. 


Some of the invitations were typewritten, and some were written by 
hand. For the first few meetings we distributed them in the streets and 
delivered them personally at certain houses. 


Each one canvassed among his own acquaintances and tried to persuade 
some of them to attend our meetings. The result was lamentable. 


I still remember how I personally once delivered eighty of these 
invitations and how we waited in the evening for the crowds to come. 


After waiting in vain for a whole hour the ‘chairman’ finally had to open 
the ‘meeting.’ Again there were only seven persons present, the old familiar 
seven. 


We then changed our methods. We had the invitations typewritten and 
multi-graphed at a Munich stationer’s shop. The result was that a few more 
people attended our next meeting. 


The number increased, gradually from eleven to, thirteen, to seventeen, 


397 


to twenty-three and finally to thirty-four. We collected some money within our 
own circle, each poor soul giving a small contribution, and in that way we 
raised sufficient funds to be able to advertise one of our meetings in the 
Muinchener Beobachter, which was then an independent paper. 


This time we had an astonishing success. We had chosen the Munich 
Hofbrauhaus Keller (which must not be confounded with the Munich 
Hofbrauhaus-Festsaal) as our meeting-place. 


It was a small hall and would accommodate scarcely more than one 
hundred and thirty persons. To me, however, the hall seemed enormous, and we 
were all trembling lest this tremendous edifice would remain partly empty on 
the night of the meeting. 


At seven o’clock one hundred and eleven persons were present, and the 
meeting was opened. A Munich professor delivered the principal address, and 
I spoke after him. 


That was my first appearance in the role of public orator. The whole 
thing seemed a very daring adventure to Herr Harrer, who was then chairman 
of the Party. He was a very decent fellow, but he had an a priori conviction 
that, though I might have, quite a number of good qualities, I certainly did not 
have a talent for public speaking. 


Even later he could not be persuaded to change his opinion. Things 
turned out differently. Twenty minutes had been allotted to me for my speech on 
this occasion, which might be looked upon as our first public meeting. 


I spoke for thirty minutes, and what I always had felt deep down in my 
heart, without being able to put it to the test, was here proved to be true; I 
could make a good speech. 


At the end of the thirty minutes, it, was quite clear that all the people in 
the little hall had been profoundly impressed. The enthusiasm aroused among 
them found its first expression in the fact that my appeal to those present 
brought us donations which amounted to three hundred marks. That was a great 
relief to us. Our finances were at that time so meagre that we could not afford 
to have our party programme, or even leaflets, printed. Now we possessed at 
least the nucleus of a fund from which we could meet the most urgent and 
necessary expenses. 


The success of this first larger meeting was also important from another 


398 


point of view. I had already begun to introduce some young and fresh members 
into the committee. 


During the long period of my military service I had come to know a large 
number of good comrades whom I was now able to persuade to join our Party. 


All of them were energetic and disciplined young men who, through their 
years of military service, had been imbued with the conviction that nothing is 
impossible and that where there’s a will there’s a way. 


The need for this fresh blood became evident to me after a few weeks of 
collaboration with the new members. Herr Harrer, who was then chairman of 
the Party, was a journalist by profession, and as such, he was a well-educated 
man, but as leader of the Party he had one very serious handicap—he could not 
speak to the crowd. 


Though he did his work conscientiously, it lacked the necessary driving 
force, probably for the reason that he had no oratorical gifts whatsoever. 


Herr Drexler, at that time chairman of the Munich local group, was a 
simple working man. He, too, was not of any great importance as a speaker. 
Moreover, he was not a soldier. He had never done military service, even 
during the War, so that he, who was feeble and diffident by nature, had missed 
the only school which can transform diffident and weakly natures into real 
men. 


Therefore neither of those two men were of the stuff that would have 
enabled them to have an ardent and indomitable faith in the ultimate triumph of 
the Movement and to brush aside, with obstinate force and, if necessary, with 
brutal ruthlessness, all obstacles that stood in the path of the new ideal. 


Such a task could be carried out only by men who had been trained, body 
and soul, in those military virtues which make a man, so to speak, agile as a 
greyhound, tough as leather, and hard as Krupp steel. 


At that time I was still a soldier. Physically and mentally I had the polish 
of six years of service, so that in the beginning this circle must have looked on 
me as quite a stranger. 


In common with my army comrades, I had forgotten such phrases as, 
“That can’t be done,” or “That 1s not possible,” or “We ought not to take such a 
risk; it is too dangerous.” 


399 


The whole undertaking was, of its very nature, dangerous. At that time 
there were many parts of Germany where it would have been absolutely 
impossible to invite people openly to a national meeting that dared to make a 
direct appeal to the masses. Those who attended such meetings were usually 
dispersed and driven away with broken heads. It certainly did not call for any 
great qualities to be able to do things in that way. The largest so-called 
bourgeois mass meetings were accustomed to dissolve, and those in attendance 
would scuttle away like rabbits frightened by a dog, as soon as a dozen 
communists appeared on the scene. 


The Reds used to pay little attention to those bourgeois organisations 
where only babblers talked. They recognised the inner triviality of such 
associations much better than the members themselves and therefore felt that 
they need not be afraid of them. 


On the other hand, however, they were all the more determined to use 
every possible means of annihilating, once and for all, any movement that 
appeared to them to be dangerous. 


The most effective means which they always employed in such cases 
were terrorism and brute force. 


The Marxist leaders, whose business consisted in deceiving and 
misleading the public, naturally hated most of all a movement whose declared 
aim was to win over those masses which had hitherto been exclusively at the 
service of international Marxism in the Jewish and Stock Exchange parties. 


The mere title, ‘German Labour Party,’ irritated them. It could easily be 
foreseen that at the first opportune moment we should have to face the 
opposition of the Marxist despots who were still intoxicated with their triumph 
in 1918. 


People in the small circle of our own Movement at that time showed a 
certain amount of anxiety at the prospect of such a conflict. 


They wanted to refrain as much as possible from coming out into the 
open, because they feared that they might be attacked and beaten. 


In their minds they saw our first public meetings broken up and feared 
that the Movement might thus be ruined for ever. 


I found it difficult to defend my own opinion, which was, that the conflict 


400 


should not be evaded, but that it should be faced openly and that we should be 
armed with those weapons which are the only protection against brute force. 


Terrorism cannot be overcome by the weapons of the mind, but only by 
counter-terror. The success of our first public meeting strengthened my own 
position. The members felt encouraged to arrange for a second meeting on a 
somewhat larger scale. 


Some time in October 1919 the second larger meeting took place in the 
Eberlbraukeller. The theme of our speeches was ‘Brest-Litovsk and 
Versailles.’ There were four speakers. 


I spoke for almost an hour, and my success was even more striking than 
at our first meeting. The number of people who attended had increased to over 
one hundred and thirty. An attempt to disturb the proceedings was immediately 
frustrated by my comrades. The would-be disturbers were thrown down the 
stairs, with bruised heads. A fortnight later, another meeting took place in the 
same hall. The number in attendance had now increased to more than one 
hundred and seventy, which meant that the room was fairly well filled. I spoke 
again, and once more the success obtained was greater than at the previous 
meeting. 


Then I proposed that a larger hall should be found. After looking around 
for some time we discovered one at the other end of the town, in the Deutsches 
Reich in the Dachauer Strasse. 


The first meeting at this new rendezvous had a smaller attendance than 
the previous meeting. There were just about one hundred and forty present. The 
members of the committee began to be discouraged, and those who had always 
been sceptical were now convinced that this falling-off in the attendance was 
due to the fact that we were holding the meetings at too short intervals. 


There were lively, discussions, in which I upheld my own opinion that a 
city of seven hundred thousand inhabitants ought to be able not only to stand 
one meeting every fortnight, but ten meetings every week. 


I held that we should not be discouraged by one set-back, that the tactics 
we had chosen were correct, and that sooner or later success would be ours if 
we only continued with determined perseverance to push forward on our road. 


This whole winter of 1919-20 was one continual struggle to strengthen 
confidence in our ability to carry the Movement on to success, and, to intensify 


401 


this confidence, until it became a burning faith that could move mountains. 


Our next meeting in the same hall proved the truth of my contention. Our 
audience had increased to more than two hundred. The publicity effect and the 
financial success were splendid. 


I immediately urged that a further meeting should be held. It took pace in 
less than a fortnight, and there were more than two hundred and seventy people 
present. 


Two weeks later, we invited our followers and their friends, for the 
seventh time to attend our meeting. The same hall was scarcely large enough 
for the number that came. They amounted to more than four hundred. 


During this phase the young Movement developed its inner form. Some 
times we had more or less heated discussions within our small circle. 


On various sides—it was then just the same as it 1s to-day—objections 
were made against the idea of calling the young Movement a party. 


I have always considered such criticism as a demonstration of practical 
incapability and narrow-mindedness on the part of the critic. 


Such objections have always been raised by men who cannot 
differentiate between external appearances and inner strength, but try to judge a 
movement by the high-sounding character of the name attached to it and to this 
end they ransack the vocabulary of our ancestors, with unfortunate results. 


At that time it was very difficult to make the people understand that 
every movement is a party as long as it has not realised its ideas and thus 
achieved its purpose. It is a party no matter by what name it chooses to call 
itself. 


Any person who tries to carry into practice an original idea whose 
realisation would be for the benefit of his fellow men will first have to look 
for disciples who are ready to fight for the ends he has in view. 


Even if these aims were merely to destroy the existing party system, and 
thereby to put a stop to the process of disintegration, then all those who come 
forward as protagonists and apostles of such an ideal are a party in themselves 
as long as their final goal is not reached. 


It is only hair-splitting and playing with words if these antiquated 


402 


volkisch theorists, whose practical success is in inverse ratio to their wisdom, 
presume to think they can change the character of a movement, which 1s at the 
same time a party, by merely changing its name. 


If there 1s anything which is non-vo/kisch it is this messing about with 
old Germanic expressions, in particular, which neither suit the present time nor 
conjure up a definite picture. 


This habit of borrowing words from the dead past tends to mislead the 
people into thinking that the external trappings of its vocabulary are the 
important feature of a movement. 


It is a mischievous habit; but it is very prevalent nowadays. At that time, 
and subsequently, I had to warn followers repeatedly against these wandering 
volkisch scholars who never accomplished anything positive or practical, 
except to cultivate their own superabundant self-conceit. 


The new Movement must guard against an influx of people whose only 
recommendation is their own statement that they have been fighting for these 
same ideals for the last thirty or forty years. 


Now, if somebody has fought for forty years to carry into effect what he 
calls an ideal, and if these alleged efforts not only show no positive results, but 
have not even been able to hinder the success of the opposing party, then the 
story of those forty years of futile effort furnishes sufficient proof for the 
incompetence of such a protagonist. 


People of that kind are especially dangerous because they do not want to 
participate in the movement as ordinary members. They talk rather of the 
leading positions which, in view of their past work and also of their intended 
activities in the future, are the only positions they are fitted to fill, but woe to a 
young movement if the conduct of it should fall into the hands of such people. 


A business man who has been in charge of a great firm for forty years 
and who has completely ruined it through mismanagement 1s not the kind of 
person one would recommend as the founder of a new firm, nor would a 
volkisch-minded Methuselah who, for the space of forty years, has been 
preaching a great ideal, until it has lost all meaning and vitality, be a suitable 
leader of a fresh young movement. 


Furthermore, only a very small percentage of such people join a new 
movement with the intention of serving its ends unselfishly and helping in the 


403 


spread of its principles. 


In most cases they come because they think that, under the aegis of the 
movement, it will be possible for them to promulgate their old ideas, to the 
misfortune of their new listeners. 


Anyhow, nobody ever seems able to make out what exactly these ideas 
are. It is typical of such persons that they rant about ancient Teutonic heroes of 
the dim and distant ages, stone axes, battle-spears and shields, whereas in 
reality they themselves are the woefullest poltroons imaginable. 


For they are the very same people who brandish Teutonic tin swords that 
have been fashioned carefully according to ancient models and wear padded 
bear-skins, with the horns of oxen mounted over their bearded faces, proclaim 
that all contemporary conflicts must be decided by the weapons of the mind 
alone, and skedaddle at the very sight of a communist cudgel. Posterity will 
have little occasion to write a new epic on these heroic gladiators. 


I have seen too much of that kind of person not to feel a profound 
contempt for their miserable play-acting. To the masses of the nation they are 
just an object of ridicule; but the Jew finds it to his own interest to treat these 
volkisch comedians with respect and to prefer them to real men who are 
fighting to establish a German State. 


Yet such people are extremely proud of themselves. Notwithstanding 
their complete fecklessness, which is an established fact, they pretend to know 
everything better than other people; so much so, that they make themselves a 
veritable nuisance to all sincere and honest patriots, to whom not only the 
heroism of the past is worthy of honour, but who also feel bound to leave 
examples of their own work for the inspiration of the coming generation. 


Among these people there are some whose conduct can be explained by 
their innate stupidity and incompetence; but there are others who have a 
definite ulterior purpose in view. Often it is difficult to distinguish between the 
two classes. 


The impression which I often get, especially of those so-called religious 
reformers whose creed is grounded on ancient Germanic customs, is that they 
are the missionaries and protégés of those forces which do not wish to see a 
national revival taking place in Germany. 


All their activities tend to turn the attention of, the people away from the 


404 


necessity of fighting together for a common cause against the common enemy, 
namely, the Jew. 


More ever, that kind of preaching induces the people to use up their 
energies, not in fighting for the common cause, but in absurd and ruinous 
religious controversies within their own ranks. 


These are definite grounds that make it absolutely necessary for the 
movement to be dominated by a strong central force which 1s embodied in the 
authoritative leadership. 


In this way alone is it possible to counteract the activity of such fatal 
elements, and that is just the reason why these volkisch Ahasueruses are 
vigorously hostile to any movement whose members are firmly united under 
one leader and one discipline. 


Those people of whom I have, spoken hate such a movement because it 
is capable of putting a stop to their mischief. 


It was not without good reason that when we laid down a clearly defined 
programme for the new movement we excluded the word volkisch from it. 


The concept underlying the term volkisch cannot serve as the basis of a 
movement, because it is too indefinite and general in its application. 
Therefore, if somebody calls himself vé/kisch this cannot be taken as a sign of 
party membership. 


Because this concept is practically indefinable it gives rise to various 
interpretations and thus people can use it all the more easily as a sort of 
personal recommendation. 


Whenever such a vague concept, which 1s subject to so many 
interpretations, is admitted into a political movement it tends to break up the 
disciplined solidarity of the fighting forces. 


No such solidarity can be maintained if each individual member is 
allowed to define for himself what he believes and what he is willing to do. 


One feels it a disgrace when one notices the kind of people who trot 
about nowadays with the vélkisch symbol stuck in their buttonholes, and at the 
same time realises how many people have various ideas of their own as to the 
significance of that symbol. 


405 


A well-known professor in Bavaria, a famous combatant who fights only 
with the weapons of the mind and who boasts of having laid siege to Berlin 
(with the weapons of the mind, of course), believes that the word voélkisch is 
synonymous with ‘monarchical.’ 


But this learned authority has hitherto neglected to explain how our 
German monarchs of the past can be identified with what we generally mean 
by the word volkisch to-day. 


I am afraid he will find himself at a loss, if he is asked to give a precise 
answer, for it would be very difficult indeed to imagine anything less volkisch 
than were most of those German monarchical states. 


Had they been otherwise they would not have disappeared; or if they 
were volkisch, then the fact of their downfall world have to be taken as 
evidence that the volkisch Weltanschauung 1s false. Everybody interprets this 
concept in his own way, but such multifarious opinions cannot be adopted as 
the basis of a militant political movement. 


I need not call attention to the absolute lack of worldly wisdom, and 
especially failure to understand the soul of the nation, which is displayed by 
these volkisch John-the-Baptists of the twentieth century. 


Sufficient attention has been called to these people by the ridicule which 
the left-wing parties have heaped on them. They allow them to babble on and 
sneer at them. 


I do not set much value on the friendship of people who do not succeed 
in getting themselves disliked by their enemies. 


Therefore, we considered the friendship of such people as not only 
worthless, but even dangerous to our young Movement. 


That was the principal reason why we first called ourselves a Party. We 
hoped that by giving ourselves such a name we might scare away a whole host 
of volkisch dreamers, and that was also the reason why we named our Party, 
The National Socialist German Labour Party. 


The first term, Party, kept away all those dreamers who live in the past 
and all lovers of bombastic nomenclature, as well as those who went around 
beating the big drum for the volkisch idea. 


406 


The full name of the Party kept away all those heroes whose weapon is 
the sword of the spirit and all those whining poltroons who take refuge behind 
their so-called ‘intelligence’, as if it were a kind of shield. 


It was only to be expected that this latter class would launch a massed 
attack against us after our Movement had started; but, of course, it was only a 
pen-and-ink attack, for the goose-quill is the only weapon which these vélkisch 
heroes wield. 


We had declared one of our principles thus, “We shall meet violence 
with violence in our own defence.” 


Naturally, that principle disturbed the equanimity of the knights of the 
pen. They reproached us bitterly not only for what they called our crude 
worship of the cudgel, but also because, according to them, we had no 
intellectual forces on our side. 


These charlatans did not think for a moment that a Demosthenes could be 
reduced to silence at a mass meeting by fifty idiots who had come there to 
shout him down and use their fists against his supporters. 


The innate cowardice of the pen-and-ink charlatan prevents him from 
exposing himself to such a danger, for he always works in ‘peace and quiet’ 
and never dares to make a noise or come forward in public. 


Even to-day I must warn the members of our young Movement in the 
strongest possible terms to guard against the danger of falling into the snare of 
those who claim to work in ‘peace and quiet,’ for they are not only a white- 
livered lot, but are also and always will be ignorant do-nothings. A man who 
is aware of certain happenings and knows that a certain danger threatens, and 
at the same time sees a certain remedy which can be employed against it, is in 
duty bound not to work in “peace and quiet,’ but to come into the open and 
publicly fight for the destruction of the evil and the acceptance of his own 
remedy. 


If he does not do so, then he is neglecting his duty and shows that he is 
weak in character and that he fails to act either because of his timidity, his 
indolence or his incompetence. 


Most of those who work in ‘peace and quiet,’ generally pretend to know 
God knows what. Not one of them is capable of any real achievement, but they 
keep on trying to fool the world with their antics. 


407 


Though quite indolent, they try to create the impression that their 
peaceful, quiet work keeps them very busy. To put it briefly, they are sheer 
swindlers, political jobbers who feel chagrined by the honest work which 
others are doing. 


When you find one of these vo/kisch moths talking of the value of “peace 
and quiet,’ you may be sure that you are dealing with a fellow who does no 
productive work at all, but steals from others the fruits of their honest labour. 


In addition to all this one ought to note the arrogance and conceited 
impudence with which these obscurantist idlers try to tear to pieces the work 
of other people, criticising it with an air of superiority, and thus playing into 
the hands of the mortal enemy of our people. 


Even the simplest follower who has the courage to stand on the table in 
some beer-hall where his enemies are gathered, and manfully and openly 
defend his position against them, achieves a thousand times more than these 
slinking hypocrites. 


He will convert at least one or two people to believe in the movement. 
We can examine his work and test its effectiveness by its actual results, but 
those cowardly swindlers, who praise their own work done in “peace and 
quiet’ and shelter under the cloak of anonymity, are just worth less drones, in 
the truest sense of the term, and are utterly useless for the purpose of our 
national reconstruction. 


At the beginning of 1920 I put forward the idea of holding our first mass 
meeting. On this proposal there were differences of opinion amongst us. Some 
leading members of our Party thought that the time was not ripe for such a 
meeting and that the result might be detrimental. 


The press of the Left had begun to take notice of us and we were lucky 
enough to be able gradually to arouse their wrath. We had begun to appear at 
other meetings and to ask questions or contradict the speakers, with the natural 
result, that we were shouted down forthwith, but still we thereby gained 
something. 


People began to know of our existence and the better they understood us, 
the stronger became their aversion and their enmity. 


Therefore we might expect that a large contingent of our ‘friends’ from 
the Red camp would attend our first mass meeting. 


408 


I fully realised that there was a great probability that our meeting would 
be broken up, but we had to face the fight, if not now, then some months later. 


It was up to us from the very first to immortalise the Movement by 
defending it in a spirit of blind faith and ruthless determination. 


I was well acquainted with the mentality of all those who belonged to the 
Red camp and I knew quite well that if we opposed them tooth and nail not 
only would we make an impression on, them, but we might even win new 
followers for ourselves. Therefore, I felt that we must be prepared to offer 
such resistance. 


Herr Harrer was then chairman of our Party. He did not see eye to eye 
with me as to the opportune time for our first mass meeting. Accordingly, he 
felt himself obliged as an upright and honest man to resign from the leadership 
of the Movement. 


Herr Anton Drexler took his place. I kept the work of organising the 
propaganda in my own hands and carried it out uncompromisingly. 


We decided on February 24th, 1920, as the date for the first great 
popular meeting to be held under the auspices of this Movement which was 
hitherto unknown. 


I made all the preparatory arrangements personally. They did not take 
very long. The whole apparatus of our organisation was such that we were 
able to make rapid decisions. 


Within the space of twenty-four hours, we had to be able to arrange mass 
meetings at which our attitude on current problems was made known. 


The holding of these meetings was announced by means of posters and 
leaflets, the contents of which was in accordance with the principles which I 
have already laid down in dealing with propaganda in general. 


They were produced in a form which would appeal to the crowd. They 
concentrated on a few points which were repeated again and again. 


The text was concise and definite, an absolutely dogmatic form of 
expression being used. We distributed these posters and leaflets with a dogged 
energy and then we patiently waited for the effect they would produce. 


For our principal colour we chose red, as it has an exciting effect on the 


409 


eye and was calculated to arouse the attention of our opponents and irritate 
them. 


Thus they would have to take notice of us whether they liked it or not and 
would not forget us. 


During the period which followed, the close bond of union between the 
Marxists and the Centre party (in Bavaria as elsewhere) was clearly revealed 
by the strenuous efforts made by the Bavarian People’s Party, which was 
omnipotent here to counteract the effect which our placards were having on the 
‘Red’ masses. 


If the police could find no other grounds for prohibiting the display of 
our placards, then they might claim that we were disturbing the traffic in the 
streets. Thus the so-called German National People’s Party calmed the 
anxieties of their ‘Red’ allies by completely prohibiting those placards which 
proclaimed a message that was bringing back hundreds of thousands of 
workers who had been misled by international agitators and worked up against 
their own nation to the bosom of their own people. 


These placards bear witness to the bitterness of the struggle in which the 
young Movement was then engaged. 


Future generations will find in these placards documentary evidence of 
our determination and the justice of our own cause. They will also prove how 
the so-called national officials took arbitrary action to strangle a movement 
that did not please them, because it was making the broad masses of the people 
national-minded and winning them back to their own racial stock. 


These placards will also help to refute the theory that there was then a 
national, government in Bavaria and they will afford documentary confirmation 
of the fact that if Bavaria remained national-minded during the years 1919, 
1920, 1921, 1922 and 1923, this was not due to a national government, but was 
because the national spirit gradually gained a deeper hold on the people and 
the government was forced to follow public feeling. 


The government authorities themselves did everything in their power to 
hamper this process of recovery and make it impossible, but in this connection 
two officials must be mentioned as outstanding exceptions. 


Ernst Pohner was Chief of Police at the time. He had a loyal counsellor 
in Dr. Frick, who was his chief executive officer. These were the only men 


410 


among the higher officials who had the courage to place the interests of their 
country before their own interests in holding on to their jobs. 


Of those in responsible positions, Ernst Pohner was the only one who 
did not pay court to the mob, but felt that his duty was towards the nation as 
such and was ready to risk and sacrifice everything, even his personal 
livelihood, to help in the restoration of the German people, whom he dearly 
loved. 


For that reason he was a bitter thorn in the side of the venal group of 
government officials. It was not the interests of the nation or the necessity of a 
national revival that inspired or directed their conduct. They simply truckled to 
the wishes of the government, as their employer, but they had no thought 
whatsoever for the national welfare for which they were responsible. 


Above all, Pohner was one of those people who, in contradiction to the 
majority of our so-called defenders of the authority of the State, did not fear to 
incur the enmity of the traitors to the country and the nation, but rather courted 
it as mark of honour. 


For such men the hatred of the Jews and Marxists, and the lies and 
calumnies they spread concerning them, was their only source of happiness in 
the midst of the national misery. POhner was a man of absolute honesty, classic 
simplicity and German straightforwardness for whom the saying “Better dead 
than a slave” is not an empty phrase, but the essence of his being. 


In my opinion, he and his collaborator, Dr. Frick, were the only men then 
holding positions in Bavaria who have the right to be considered as having 
taken an active part in the creation of a national Bavaria. 


Before holding our first great mass meeting it was necessary not only to 
have our propaganda material ready, but also to have the main items of our 
programme printed. 


In the second volume of this book I shall give a detailed account of, the 
guiding principles which we then followed in drawing up our programme. 


Here I will only say that, the programme was arranged not merely to set 
forth the form and scope of the young Movement, but also with an eye to 
making it understood by the broad masses. 


The so-called intellectual circles made jokes and sneered at it and then 


411 


tried to criticise it, but the effect of our programme proved that the ideas which 
we then held were right. 


During those years I saw dozens of new movements arise and disappear 
without leaving a trace behind. Only one movement had survived; it is the 
National Socialist German Labour Party. 


To-day Iam more convinced than ever before that, though they may 
combat us and try to paralyse our Movement, and though pettifogging party 
ministers may forbid us the right of free speech, they cannot prevent the 
triumph of our ideals. 


When the present system of state administration and even the names of 
the political parties that represent it will be forgotten, the programmatic basis 
of the National Socialist Movement will supply the groundwork on which the 
future State will be built. 


The meetings which we held before January 1920 had enabled us to 
collect the financial means that were necessary to have, our first pamphlets and 
posters and our programme printed. 


I shall bring the first part of this book to a close by referring to our first 
great mass meeting, because that meeting marked the occasion on which the 
Party shed its fetters as a small association and exercised for the first time a 
definite influence on public opinion which is the most powerful factor of our 
age. At that time my chief anxiety was that we might not fill the hall and that we 
might have to face empty benches. I myself was firmly convinced that if only 
the people would come, this day would turn out a great success for the young 
movement so that it was with a feeling of tense excitement that I waited 
impatiently for the evening to come. 


It had been announced that the meeting would begin at 7.30 p.m. A 
quarter of an hour before the opening time I entered the Festsaal of the 
Hofbrauhaus in the Platz in Munich and my heart nearly burst with joy. 


The great hall—for at that time it seemed very big to me—was filled to 
overflowing. Nearly two thousand persons were present, and, above all, those 
people had come whom we had always wished to reach. 


More than half the audience consisted of persons who seemed to be 
communists or independents. Our first great demonstration was destined, in 
their view, to come to an abrupt end. 


412 


But they were mistaken. When the first speaker had finished I got up to 
speak. After a few minutes I was met with a hailstorm of interruptions, and 
violent encounters broke out in the body of the hall. 


A handful of my loyal war-comrades and some other followers grappled 
with the disturbers and gradually restored a semblance of order. I was able to 
continue my speech. 


After half an hour the applause began to drown the interruptions and the 
cat-calls. Then I turned to the question of our programme, which I proceeded to 
elucidate for the first time. 


Then interruptions gradually ceased and applause took their place. 


When I finally came to explain the twenty-five points and laid them, 
point by point, before the masses gathered there and asked them to pass their 
own judgment on each point, one after another was accepted with increasing 
enthusiasm. 


When the last point was reached I had before me a hall full of people 
united by a new conviction, a new faith and a new resolve. 


Nearly four hours had passed, when the hall began to clear. As the 
masses streamed towards the exits, crammed shoulder to shoulder, shoving and 
pushing, I knew that a Movement was now set afoot among the German people 
which would never fade into oblivion. 


A fire had been kindled from whose glowing heat the sword would be 
fashioned which would restore freedom to the German Siegfried and bring 
back life to the German nation. 


Beside the revival which I then foresaw, I also felt that the Goddess of 
Vengeance was now getting ready to redress the wrongs of November 9th 
1918. 


The hall was emptied. The Movement was on the march. 


413 


414 
