One day I received an order from my superior officer to investigate the 
nature of an association which was apparently political. It called itself ‘The 
German Labour Party’ and was soon to hold a meeting at which Gottfried 
Feder would speak. 


I was ordered to attend this meeting and report on the nature of the 
association. The spirit of curiosity in which the army authorities then regarded 
political parties can be very well understood. 


The Revolution had granted the soldiers the right to take an active part in 
politics and it was particularly those with the smallest experience who had 
availed themselves of this privilege, but not until the Centre and the Social 
Democratic Parties were reluctantly forced to recognise that the sympathies of 
the soldiers had turned away from the revolutionary parties towards the 
national movement and the national reawakening, did they feel obliged to 
withdraw from the Army the right to vote, and to ban all political activity 
among the soldiers. 


The fact that the centre and Marxism had adopted this policy was 
instructive, because if they had not thus curtailed the ‘rights of the citizen’—as 
they described the political rights of the soldiers after the Revolution—the 
government which had been established in November 1918 would have been 
overthrown within a few years and the dishonour and disgrace of the nation 
would not have been further prolonged. 


At that time the soldiers were on the point of ridding the nation of the 
vampires and fawners who served the cause of the Entente in the interior of the 
country, but the fact that the so-called ‘national’ parties voted enthusiastically 
for the doctrinaire policy of the criminals who organised the revolution in 
November 1918 also helped to render the Army ineffectual as an instrument of 
national restoration, and thus showed once again what might be the outcome of 
the purely abstract notions imbibed by these most gullible people. 


The minds of the bourgeois middle classes had become so fossilised that 
they sincerely believed the Army could once again become what it had 
previously been, namely, a rampart of German valour, while the Centre Party 
and the Marxists intended only to extract the poisonous tooth of nationalism, 


242 


without which an army must always remain just a polite force, but can never be 
in the position of a military organisation capable of fighting against an outside 
enemy. 


This truth was sufficiently proved by subsequent events. Or did our 
‘national’ politicians believe, after all, that the development of our army could 
be other than national? This belief might be possible and could be explained 
by the fact that, during the war, they had been not soldiers, but merely talkers. 


In other words, they were parliamentarians, and, as such, they did not 
have the slightest idea of what was going on in the hearts of those men who 
remembered the greatness of their own past and also remembered that they had 
once been the first soldiers in the world. 


I decided to attend the meeting of this party which had hitherto been 
entirely unknown to me. When I arrived that evening in the guest-room of the 
former Sterneckerbrau—which has now become a place of historical 
significance for us—I found some twenty or twenty-five persons present, most 
of them belonging to the lower classes. 


The theme of Feder’s lecture was already familiar to me, for I had heard 
it in the lecture course of which I have spoken. I could, therefore, concentrate 
my attention on the society itself. 


The impression it made upon me was neither good nor bad. I felt that 
here was just another one of those many new societies which were being 
formed at that time. In those days everybody felt called upon to found a new 
party whenever he felt displeased with the course of events and had lost 
confidence in all the parties already existing. 


Thus it was that new associations sprouted up all round, to disappear 
just as quickly, without exercising any effect or making any impression 
whatsoever. Generally speaking, the founders of such associations did not have 
the slightest idea of what it means to bring together a number of people for the 
foundation of a party or a movement. 


Therefore, these associations disappeared because of their woeful lack 
of anything like an adequate grasp of the essentials of the situation. 


My opinion of the ‘German Labour Party’ was not very different after I 
had listened to their proceedings for about two hours. I was glad when Feder 
finally came to a close. I had observed enough and was just about to leave 


243 


when it was announced that anybody who wished was free to take part in the 
discussion. 


Thereupon, I decided to remain, but the discussion seemed to proceed 
without anything of vital importance being mentioned, when suddenly a 
‘professor’ commenced to speak. 


He began by throwing doubt on the accuracy of what Feder had said, and 
then, after Feder had replied very effectively, the professor suddenly took up 
his position on what he called ‘the basis of facts, but before this he 
recommended the young party most urgently to introduce the secession of 
Bavaria from Prussia as one of the leading points in its programme. 


In the most self-assured way, this man kept on insisting that German- 
Austria would join Bavaria and that the peace would then function much better. 
He made other similarly extravagant statements. 


At this juncture I felt bound to ask for permission to speak and to tell the 
learned gentleman what I thought. The result was that the honourable gentleman 
who had last spoken slipped out of the room, like a whipped cur, without 
uttering a sound. 


While I was speaking the audience listened with an expression of 
surprise on their faces. When I was just about to say good-night to the 
assembly and to leave, a man came after me quickly and introduced himself. I 
did not grasp the name correctly, but he placed in my hand a little book which 
was obviously a political pamphlet, and asked me very earnestly to read it. 


I was quite pleased, because, in this way, I could get to know about this 
association without having to attend its tiresome meetings. Moreover, this man, 
who had the appearance of a workman, made a good impression on me. 
Thereupon, I left the hall. 


At that time, I was living in one of the barracks of the 2nd Infantry 
Regiment. I had a little room which still bore unmistakable traces of the 
Revolution. 


During the day I was mostly out, at the quarters of the Light Infantry 
Regiment No. 41, or else attending meetings or lectures, held at the quarters of 
some other unit. I spent only the night at the barracks where I lodged. 


Since I usually woke up about five o’clock every morning, I got into the 


244 


habit of amusing myself with watching little mice which scampered about my 
small room. 


I used to place a few pieces of hard bread or crust on the floor and 
watch the funny little creatures playing around and enjoying themselves with 
these delicacies. I had suffered so many privations in my life that I well knew 
what hunger was and could only too well picture to myself the pleasure these 
little creatures were experiencing. 


On the morning after the meeting I have mentioned, it happened that about 
five o’clock I lay fully awake in bed, watching the mice playing and vying with 
each other. As I was not able to go to sleep again, I suddenly remembered the 
pamphlet that one of the workers had given me at the meeting. It was a small 
pamphlet of which this worker was the author. 


In his little book he described how his mind had thrown off the shackles 
of the Marxist and trade-union phraseology, and how he had come back to the 
nationalist ideals. That was the reason why he had entitled his little book, My 
Political Awakening. 


The pamphlet secured my attention the moment I began to read, and I 
read it with interest to the end. The process here described was similar to that 
which I had experienced in my own case twelve years previously. 


Unconsciously, my own experiences began to stir again in my mind. 
During that day my thoughts returned several times to what I had read, but I 
finally decided to give the matter no further attention. 


A week or so later, however, I received a postcard which informed me, 
to my astonishment, that I had been admitted to the German Labour Party. I was 
asked to answer this communication and to intend a meeting of the party 
committee on Wednesday next. 


This manner of getting members rather amazed me, and I did not know 
whether to be angry or laugh at it. I had no intention of entering a party already 
in existence, but wanted to found one of my own. 


Such an invitation as I had now received, I looked upon as entirely out of 
the question for me. I was about to send a written reply when my curiosity got 
the better of me, and I decided to attend the gathering on the date assigned, so 
that I might expound my principles to these gentlemen in person. 


245 


Wednesday came. The tavern in which the meeting was to take place was 
the Altes Rosenbad in the Herrnstrasse, into which apparently only an 
occasional guest wandered. 


This was not very surprising in the year 1919, when the bill of fare even 
at the larger restaurants was very modest and scanty and thus not very 
attractive to clients, but I had never before heard of this restaurant. 


I went through the badly-lighted tap-room, where not a single guest was 
to be seen, and searched for the door which led to the side room, and there I 
found the ‘meeting.’ 


Under the dim light shed by a grimy gas-lamp, I could see four young 
people sitting around a table, one of them being the author of the pamphlet. He 
greeted me cordially and welcomed me as a new member of the German 
Labour Party. 


I was somewhat taken aback. On being informed that, actually, the ‘Reich 
chairman’ of the party had not yet come, I decided that I would keep back my 
own explanation for the time being. 


Finally the chairman appeared. He was the man who had been chairman 
at the meeting held in the Sterneckerbrau, when Feder had spoken. 


My curiosity was stimulated anew and I| sat waiting for what was going 
to happen. Now I got at least as far as learning the names of the gentlemen 
present. The Reich chairman of the association was a certain Herr Harrer and 
the chairman for the Munich district was Anton Drexler. 


The minutes of the previous meeting were read out and a vote of 
confidence in the secretary was passed. Then came the treasurer’s report. The 
society possessed a total fund of seven marks and fifty pfennigs, whereupon the 
treasurer was assured that he had the confidence of the members. This was 
now inserted in the minutes. Then letters of reply, which had been drafted by 
the chairman, were read; first, to a letter received from Kiel, then to one from 
Dusseldorf and finally to one from Berlin. All three replies received the 
approval of all present. 


Then the incoming letters were read—one from Berlin, one from 
Dusseldorf and one from Kiel. The reception of these letters seemed to cause 
great satisfaction. This increasing bulk of correspondence was taken as the 
best and most obvious sign of the growing importance of the German Labour 


246 


Party. 


And then? Well, there followed a long discussion of the replies which 
should be given to these newly received letters, It was all very awful. This 
was the worst kind of parish-pump clubbism. And was I supposed to become a 
member of such a club? 


The question of new members was next discussed that is to say, the 
question of catching me in the trap. I now began to ask questions. But I found 
that, apart from a few general principles, there was nothing—no programme, 
no pamphlet, nothing at all in print, no card of membership, not even a party 
stamp, nothing but obvious good faith and good intentions. 


I no longer felt inclined to laugh; for what else was all this but a typical 
sign of the most complete perplexity and deepest despair concerning all other 
political parties, their programmes, views and activities? 


The feeling which had induced those few young people to join in what 
seemed such a ridiculous enterprise was nothing but the call of the inner voice 
which told them—though more intuitively than consciously—that the whole 
party system as it had hitherto existed was not the kind of force that could 
restore the German nation or repair the damage that had been done to the 
German people by those who had hitherto controlled the internal affairs of the 
nation. 


I quickly read through the list of principles laid down by the party. These 
principles were stated on typewritten sheets. Here again I found evidence of 
the spirit of longing and searching, but no sign whatever of a knowledge of the 
conflict that had to be fought. 


I myself had experienced the feelings which inspired these people. It 
was the longing for a movement which should be more than a party, in the 
hitherto accepted meaning of that word. 


When I returned to my room in the barracks that evening, I had formed a 
definite opinion on this association and I was facing the most difficult problem 
of my life. Should I join this party or refuse? 


From the common-sense point of view, I felt I ought to refuse, but my 
feelings troubled me. The more I tried to prove to myself how senseless this 
club was, on the whole, the more did my feelings incline me to favour it. 


247 


During the days which followed I was restless. I began to consider all 
the pros and cons. I had long ago decided to take an active part in politics. The 
fact that I could do so only through a new movement was quite clear to me, but 
I had hitherto lacked the impulse to take concrete action. 


I am not one of those people who will begin something to-day just to 
give it up the next day for the sake of something new. That was the main reason 
which made it so difficult for me to decide to join something newly founded; 
for this must become the real fulfilment of everything I dreamt, or else it had 
better not be started at all. 


I knew that such a decision would bind me for ever and then there could 
be no turning back. For me there could be no idle dallying, but only a cause to 
be championed ardently. I had already an instinctive feeling against people 
who took up everything, but never carried anything through to the end. 


I loathed these Jacks-of-all trades, and considered the activities of such 
people to be worse than if they were to remain entirely quiescent. 


Fate herself now seemed to point a finger that showed me the way. I 
should never have entered one of the big parties already in existence and shall 
explain my reasons for this later on. 


This ludicrous little formation, with its handful of members, seemed to 
have the unique advantage of not yet being fossilised into an ‘organisation’ and 
still offered a chance for real personal activity on the part of the individual. 


Here it might still be possible to do some effective work, and, as the 
movement was still small, one could all the more easily give it the required 
shape. 


Here it was still possible to determine the character of the movement, the 
aims to be achieved and the road to be taken, which would have been 
impossible in the case of any of the big parties already existing. 


The longer I reflected on the problem, the more my conviction grew, that 
just such a small movement would best serve as an instrument to prepare the 
way for the national resurgence, but that this could never be done by the 
political parliamentary parties which were too firmly attached to obsolete 
ideas or had an interest in supporting the new regime. 


What had to be proclaimed here was a new Weltanschauung and not a 


248 


new election cry. It was, however, infinitely difficult to decide on putting the 
intention into practice. What were the qualifications which I could bring to the 
accomplishment of such a task? 


The fact that I was poor and without resources would, in my opinion, be 
the easiest to bear, but the fact that I was utterly unknown raised a more 
difficult problem. I was only one of the millions whom chance allows to exist 
or to cease to exist, whom even their next-door neighbours will not consent to 
know. 


Another difficulty arose from the fact that I had not gone through the 
regular school curriculum. The so-called ‘intellectuals’ still look down with 
infinite superciliousness on anyone who has not been through the prescribed 
schools and allowed them to pump the necessary knowledge into him. 


The question, What can a man do? is never asked, but rather, what has he 
learned? ‘Educated’ people look upon any imbecile who is plastered with a 
number of academic certificates as being superior to the ablest young fellow 
who lacks these precious documents. 


I could therefore easily imagine how this ‘educated’ world would 
receive me and I was wrong only in so far as I then believed men to be for the 
most part better than they proved to be in the cold light of reality. 


Because of their being as they, are, the few exceptions stand out all the 
more conspicuously. I learned more and more to distinguish between those 
who will always be at school and those who will one day come to know 
something. 


After two days of careful brooding and reflection I became convinced 
that I must take the contemplated step. It was the most fateful decision of my 
life. No retreat was possible. 


Thus I declared myself ready to accept the membership tendered me by 
the German Labour Party and received a provisional certificate of membership 
which bore the number seven. 


249 


250 


251 
