In 1919-20 and also in 1921 I attended some of the bourgeois meetings. 
Invariably I had the same feeling towards these as towards the compulsory 
dose of castor 011 in my boyhood days. 


It had to be taken because it was good for one, but it certainly tasted 
unpleasant. If it were possible to tie ropes round the German people and 
forcibly drag them to these bourgeois ‘meetings’, to keep them there behind 
barred doors and to allow nobody to escape until the meeting closed, then this 
procedure might prove successful in the course of a few hundred years. 


For my own part I must frankly admit that, in such circumstances, I 
should not find life worth living and indeed I should no longer wish to be a 
German. 


But, thank God, all that is impossible, and so it is not surprising that the 
sane and unspoilt masses shun these ‘bourgeois mass meetings’ as the devil 
shuns holy water. 


I came to know the prophets of the bourgeois Weltanschauung, and I was 
not surprised at what I learned, as I knew that they attached little importance to 
the spoken word. 


At that time, I attended meetings of the Democrats, the German 
Nationalists, the German People’s Party and the Bavarian People’s Party (the 
Centre Party of Bavaria). 


What struck me at once was the homogeneous uniformity of the 
audiences. Nearly always they were made up exclusively of party members. 


The whole affair was more like a yawning card party than an assembly 
of people who had just passed through a great revolution. 


The speakers did all they could to maintain this tranquil atmosphere. 
They declaimed, or rather read out, their speeches in the style of an intellectual 
newspaper article or a learned treatise, avoiding all forcible expressions. 


Here and there a feeble professorial joke would be introduced, 
whereupon the people sitting at the speaker’s table felt themselves obliged to 
laugh—not loudly or infectiously, but with well-bred reserve. 


545 


Oh, those people at the speaker’s table! I once attended a meeting in the 
Wagner Hall in Munich. It was a demonstration to celebrate the anniversary of 
the Battle of Leipzig. The speech was delivered, or rather read out, by a 
venerable old professor from one or other of the universities. 


The committee sat on the platform: one monocle on the right, another 
monocle on the left, and in the centre a gentleman with no monocle. 


All three of them were punctiliously attired in morning dress, and I had 
the impression of being present in a court of justice just as the death-sentence 
was about to be pronounced or at a christening or some more solemn religious 
ceremony. 


The so-called speech, which in printed form may have read quite well, 
had a disastrous effect. After three-quarters of an hour the audience fell into a 
sort of hypnotic trance, which was interrupted only when some man or woman 
left the hall, or by the clatter which the waitresses made, or by the increased 
yawning of members of the audience. 


I had posted myself behind three workmen who were present either out 
of curiosity or because they were sent there by their parties. 


From time to time they glanced at one another with an ill-concealed grin, 
nudged one another with their elbows and then silently left the hall. One could 
see that they had no intention whatsoever of interrupting the proceedings, nor 
indeed was it necessary to do so. 


At long last the proceedings showed signs of drawing to a close. After 
the professor, whose voice had meanwhile become more and more inaudible, 
had finally ended his speech the gentleman without the monocle delivered a 
rousing peroration to the assembled ‘German sisters and brethren.’ 


On behalf of the audience and himself he expressed his thanks for the 
magnificent lecture which they had just heard from Professor X and 
emphasised how deeply the Professor’s words had moved them all. 


If a general discussion on the lecture were to take place it would be 
tantamount to profanity, and he thought he was voicing the opinion of all 
present in suggesting that such a discussion should not be held. 


Therefore, he would ask the assembly to rise from their seats and join in 
singing the patriotic song, Wir Binden Einig Volk von Briidern. 


546 


The proceedings finally closed with the singing of the anthem, 
Deutschland tiber Alles. It appeared to me that when the second verse was 
reached the voices were fewer and that only when the refrain was reached did 
they swell louder. 


When we reached the third verse my suspicion that a good many of those 
present were not very familiar with the text was confirmed. But what does that 
matter when such a song is sung whole-heartedly and fervidly by an assembly 
of German Nationalists? 


After this the meeting broke up and everyone hurried to get outside, one 
to his glass of beer, one to a cafe, and others simply into the fresh air. 


Out into the fresh air! That was also my one desire. Was this the way to 
commemorate a heroic struggle in which hundreds of thousands of Prussians 
and Germans had fought? 


No, a thousand times no! That sort of thing might find favour with the 
Government, it being merely a ‘peaceful’ meeting. 


The minister responsible for law and order had no need to fear that 
enthusiasm might suddenly get the better of public decorum and induce these 
people to pour out of the room and, instead of dispersing to public houses and 
cafés, march four abreast through the town singing Deutschland hoch in Ehren 
and causing some unpleasantness to a police force in need of sleep. 


He had reason to be well satisfied with this type of citizen. On the other 
hand, the National Socialist meetings were by no means ‘peaceable’ affairs. 


Two distinct Weltanschauungen raged in bitter opposition to one 
another, and these meetings did not close with the mechanical rendering of a 
dull patriotic song, but rather with a passionate outbreak of popular national 
feeling. 


It was imperative from the start to introduce rigid discipline into our 
meetings and establish the authority of the chairman absolutely. 


Our purpose was not to pour out a mixture of soft-soap bourgeois talk; 
what we had to say was meant to arouse the opponents at our meetings! 


How often did they not turn up in large numbers with a few agitators 
among them ready, judging by the expression on all their faces, to finish us off 


547 


there and then. 


How often did they turn up in strength, those supporters of the Red Flag, 
having been previously instructed to smash up everything once and for all, and 
put an end to our meetings. 


More often than not everything hung in the balance, and only the 
chairman’s ruthless determination and the rough handling by our hall-guards 
baffled our adversaries ‘intentions’. They had every reason to be irritated. 


The fact that we had chosen red as the colour for our posters sufficed to 
attract them to our meeting. The ordinary bourgeoisie were very shocked to see 
that we had also chosen the symbolic red of Bolshevism and they regarded this 
as something ambiguously significant. 


It was whispered in German Nationalist circles that we also were 
merely another variety of Marxists, perhaps even Marxists suitably disguised, 
or better still, Socialists. 


The actual difference between Socialism and Marxism still remains a 
mystery to these people to this day. The charge of Marxism was conclusively 
proved when it was discovered that at our meetings we deliberately substituted 
the word ‘compatriots’ for ‘Ladies and Gentlemen’ and addressed each other 
as ‘Party Comrade.’ 


We used to roar with laughter at these silly faint-hearted bourgeois and 
their efforts to puzzle out our origin, our intentions and our aims. 


We chose red for our posters after careful deliberation, our intention 
being to irritate the Left, so as to arouse their attention and tempt them to come 
to our meetings—f only in order to break them up—so that it this way we 
might have a chance of talking to the people. 


In those years it was indeed a delightful experience to follow the 
constantly changing tactics of our perplexed and helpless adversaries. 


First of all, they appealed to their followers to ignore us and keep away 
from our meetings. Generally speaking, this appeal was heeded. But, as time 
went on, more and more of their followers gradually found their way to us and 
accepted our teaching. 


Then the leaders became nervous and, uneasy. They clung to their belief 


548 


that such a development should not be ignored forever, and that force must be 
applied in order to put an end to it. 


Appeals were then made to the ‘class-conscious proletariat’ to attend our 
meetings in masses and strike with the clenched hand of the proletarian at the 
representatives of a ‘monarchist and reactionary agitation.’ 


Our meetings suddenly became packed with work-people fully three- 
quarters of an hour before the proceedings were scheduled to begin. These 
gatherings resembled a powder cask ready to explode at any moment, and the 
fuse was conveniently at hand. 


But things always turned out differently. People came as enemies and 
left, not perhaps prepared to join us, yet in a reflective mood and disposed to 
examine critically the correctness of their own doctrine. 


Gradually, as time went on, my three-hour lectures resulted in supporters 
and opponents becoming, united in one single enthusiastic group of people. 
Every signal for the breaking up of the meeting failed. 


The result was that the opposition leaders became more frightened and 
once again looked for help from those quarters that had formerly 
discountenanced these tactics and, with some show of right, had been of the 
opinion that on principle the workers should be forbidden to attend our 
meetings. 


Thereafter, they did not come any more, or only in small numbers, but 
after a short time the whole game began again. The instructions to keep away 
from us were ignored, the comrades came in steadily increasing numbers, until 
finally the advocates of the radical tactics won the day. 


We were to be broken up. Yet when, after two, three and even many 
meetings, it was realised that to break up these gatherings was easier said than 
done and that every meeting resulted in a decisive weakening of the Red, 
fighting forces, the other cry was taken up again, ‘Proletarians and comrades, 
avoid the meetings of the National Socialist agitators.’ 


The same eternally alternating tactics were also to be observed in the 
Red press. At one time they tried to silence us, but discovered the uselessness 
of such an attempt. After that they swung round to the opposite tactics. Daily 
‘reference’ was made to us solely for the purpose of ridiculing us in the eyes 
of the working classes. 


549 


After a time these gentlemen must have felt that no harm was being done 
to us, but that, on the contrary, we were reaping an advantage in that people 
were asking themselves why so much space was being devoted to a subject 
which was supposed to be so futile. 


People became curious. Suddenly, there was a change of tactics and for a 
time we were treated as veritable criminals against mankind. 


One article followed another, in which our criminal intentions were 
explained and fresh proofs brought forward in support of what was said. 


Scandalous tales, all of them fabricated from start to finish, were 
published in order to help to poison the public mind, but in a short time even 
these attacks also proved unavailing and in fact they were of material 
assistance to us because they attracted public attention to us. 


In those days I took up the standpoint that it was immaterial whether they 
laughed at us or reviled us, whether they depicted us as fools or criminals; the 
important point was that they took notice of us and that in the eyes of the 
working classes we came to be regarded as the only force capable of putting 


up a fight. 


I said that we would one day show the rabble that was the Jewish press 
what we really were and what we were really aiming at. 


One reason why they never got so far as breaking up our meetings was 
undoubtedly the incredible cowardice displayed by the leaders of the 
opposition. 


On every critical occasion they left the dirty work to the smaller fry 
whilst they waited outside the halls for the results of the break-up. 


We were nearly always well-informed of our opponents’ intentions, not 
only because we allowed several of our party colleagues to remain members 
of the Red organisations for reasons of expediency, but also because the Red 
wire-pullers, were, most luckily for us, afflicted with a degree of talkativeness 
that is still unfortunately very prevalent among Germans. 


They could not keep their own counsel, and more often than not they 
started cackling before the proverbial egg was laid. Hence, time and again, we 
were able to take such far-reaching precautionary measures that the ‘Reds’ 
who had been told off to break up our meeting had no inkling that they were 


550 


about to be ejected. 


This state of affairs compelled us to take the work of safeguarding our 
meetings into our own hands. No reliance could be placed on the protection of 
the authorities, on the contrary, experience showed that it was the disturbing 
element which gained by such intervention. The only real outcome of police 
intervention was that the meeting would be dissolved, which was precisely 
what our opponents wanted. Generally speaking, this led the police to adopt a 
method of procedure which, to say the least of it, was a most infamous example 
of official malpractice. 


The moment they received information of a threat that some meeting was 
to be broken up, instead of arresting the would-be disturbers, they promptly 
forbade the non-guilty party to hold the meeting, this being a measure which 
appealed to the average police mentality as the climax of wisdom. This step 
the police proclaimed to be a ‘precautionary measure in the interests of law 
and order.’ 


The political work and activities of decent people could, therefore, 
always be hindered by any desperate ruffians who had the means at their 
disposal. 


In the name of law and order State authority bowed down to these 
ruffians and demanded that others should not provoke them. 


When the National Socialists desired to hold meetings in certain places 
and the trade-unions declared that their members would resist, then it was not 
the blackmailers that were arrested and gaoled. 


On the contrary, our meetings were forbidden by the police. In fact, the 
strong arm of the law had the unspeakable impudence to advise us in writing to 
this effect on innumerable occasions. 


To avoid such eventualities it was necessary to see to it that every 
attempt to disturb a meeting was nipped in the bud. 


Another feature to be taken into account in this respect is that all 
meetings which rely on police protection must necessarily bring discredit to 
their promoters in the eyes of the general public. 


Meetings that can be held only with the protective assistance of a strong 
force of police convert nobody, because in order to win over the lower strata 


551 


of the people there must be a visible show of strength on one’s own side. 


In the same way that a man of courage will win a woman’s affection 
more easily than a coward, so a fearless movement will be more successful in 
winning the hearts of a people than a weak movement which relies on police 
support for its very existence. 


It is for this latter reason in particular that our young Party had to assume 
the full responsibility of safeguarding its own existence, defending itself and 
foiling the terrorist tactics of its opponents. 


The measures adopted for the protection of our meetings were as 
follows: Firstly, energetic and judicious conduct of the meeting. 


Secondly, the organisation of a squad of men to maintain order. In those 
days, we and no one else were masters of the situation at our meetings, and on 
no occasion did we fail to emphasise this. 


Our opponents fully realised that any provocation would be a signal to 
have them thrown out of the hall at once whatever the odds against us. At 
meetings, particularly outside Munich, we had in those days from five to eight 
hundred opponents to fifteen or sixteen National Socialists; yet we brooked no 
interference for our opponents knew full well that we were prepared to die 
rather than capitulate. 


More than once a handful of party members offered a heroic resistance to 
a raging and violent mob of Reds. Those fifteen or twenty men would certainly 
have been overwhelmed in the end had not the opponents known that three or 
four times as many of themselves would first get their skulls cracked, and that 
risk they were not willing to run. 


We had done our best to study the Marxist and bourgeois methods of 
conducting meetings, and we had certainly learnt something. 


The Marxists had always exercised a most rigid discipline so that the 
question of breaking up their meetings could never have originated in 
bourgeois quarters. 


The more, therefore, did the Reds concentrate on these tactics. In time 
they not only became past masters in this art, but in certain large districts of the 
Reich they went so far as to declare that non-Marxist meetings were nothing 
less than a cause of provocation to the proletariat. 


552 


This was particularly the case when the wire-pullers suspected that a 
meeting might call attention to their own transgressions and thus expose their 
own treachery and chicanery. 


Therefore, the moment such a meeting was announced, a howl of rage 
went up from the Red press. They, who despised the law on principle, nearly 
always appealed in the first instance to the authorities and requested in 
imperative and threatening language that this ‘provocation of the proletariat’ be 
stopped forthwith in the ‘interests of law and order.’ 


Their language was chosen according to the importance of the official 
blockhead with whom they were dealing and thus success was assured. 


If by chance the official happened to be a true German—and not a mere 
figurehead—and he did not comply with the impudent request, then the well- 
known appeal to stop ‘provocation of the proletariat’ was issued together with 
instructions to attend such and such a meeting on a certain date in full strength 
for the purpose of ‘putting a stop to the disgraceful machinations of the 
bourgeoisie by means of the proletarian fist.’ 


The pitiful and frightened manner in which these bourgeois meetings 
were conducted had to be seen to be believed. Very frequently these threats 
were sufficient to make them call off such a meeting at once. 


The feeling of fear was so marked that the meeting, instead of 
commencing at eight o’clock, very seldom opened before a quarter to nine or 
nine o’clock. 


The chairman thereupon did his best, by showering compliments on the 
‘gentlemen of the opposition’ to prove how he and all others present were 
pleased (a palpable lie) to welcome the presence of men who were not as yet 
in sympathy with them, for the reason that only by mutual discussion (to which 
he hereby gave his consent) could they be brought closer together in mutual 
understanding. 


Apart from this the chairman also assured them that the meeting had no 
intention whatsoever of interfering with anybody’s professed conviction. Far 
from it. Everyone had the right to form and hold his own political views, but he 
should allow others to do likewise. 


He, therefore, requested that the speaker be allowed to deliver his 
speech without interruption—the speech in any case not being a long affair— 


553 


so that this meeting should not provide the world with the spectacle of yet 
another shameful instance of the bitter fraternal strife raging in Germany. And 
so on and so forth. 


The brethren of the Left had little, if any, sympathy with that sort of talk; 
the speaker had hardly commenced when he was shouted down. One gained the 
impression at times that these speakers were grateful to the Fate which 
peremptorily cut short their martyr-like discourse. 


These bourgeois toreadors left the arena amidst a vast uproar, that is to 
say, if they escaped being thrown down the stairs with cracked skulls, as was 
very often the case. 


Therefore, our methods of organisation at National Socialist meetings 
were something quite strange to the Marxists. They came to our meetings in the 
belief that the little game which they had so often played successfully could, as 
a matter of course, be repeated on us. 


“To-day we shall finish them off.’ How often did they baw] this out to 
each other on entering the meeting hall, only to be thrown out with lightning 
speed before they had time to repeat it! 


In the first place, our method of conducting a meeting was entirely 
different. We did not crave permission to be allowed to speak, and we did not 
straightaway give everybody the right to hold endless discussions. 


We curtly gave everyone to understand that we were masters of the 
meeting and that we could, therefore, do as we pleased and that everyone who 
dared to interrupt would be unceremoniously thrown out. 


We stated clearly our refusal to accept responsibility for anyone treated 
in this manner. If time permitted, and if it suited us, a discussion would take 
place. Party member so-and-so would now speak. 


That kind of talk was sufficient in itself to astonish the Marxists. 


Secondly, we had at our disposal a well-trained and organised body of 
men for maintaining order at our meetings. 


On the other hand, the bourgeois parties protected their meetings with a 
body of men better classified as ushers who, by virtue of their age, thought they 
were entitled to authority and respect, but as the Marxist-taught mob had no 


554 


respect either for age or authority, protective measures at the bourgeois 
meetings were practically non-existent. 


When our political meetings first started I made it a special point to 
organise a suitable defensive squad composed, as a matter of principle, solely 
of young men. 


Some of them were ex-service men who had seen active service with 
me. Others were young party members who, right from the start, had been 
trained to realise that terrorism can be combated only by terrorism, that only 
courageous and determined people had made a success of things in this world. 
Finally, they knew that we were fighting for an ideal so lofty that, it was worth 
the last drop of our blood. 


These young men had been trained to realise that where force replaced 
common sense in the solution of a problem, the best means of defence was 
attack and that the reputation of our hall-guard squads should stamp us as a 
political fighting force and not as a debating society. 


It was extraordinary how eagerly those boys of the war-generation 
responded to this order. They had indeed good reason to be bitterly 
disappointed and indignant at the miserable milksop methods employed by the 
bourgeoisie. 


Thus it became clear to everyone that the Revolution had only been 
possible thanks to the dastardly methods of a bourgeois government. 


At that time there was certainly no lack of man-power to suppress the 
revolution, but unfortunately there was an entire lack of an organising brain. 


How often did the eyes of my young men light up with enthusiasm when I 
explained to them the vital functions connected with their task. I assured them 
time and again that all earthly wisdom is useless unless it be supported and 
protected by force; that the gentle goddess of Peace can only walk in company 
with the god of War; and that every great measure performed in the name of 
Peace must be protected and furthered by means of force. 


In this way the idea of military service appeared to them in a far more 
realistic light—not in the fossilised sense of decrepit officials serving the dead 
authority of a dead State—but in the living realisation of the duty of each man 
to sacrifice his life for his country at any given time and in any given place. 


555 


All honour to those young men for the way in which they performed their 
duty! Like a swarm of hornets they tackled disturbers at our meetings, 
regardless of superiority of numbers, however great, indifferent to wounds and 
bloodshed, inspired with the great idea of blazing a trail for the sacred mission 
of our Movement. 


As early as the summer of 1920 the organisation of squads of men as 
hall-guards for the purpose of maintaining order at our meetings was gradually 
assuming definite shape. 


By the spring of 1921 this body of men was sectioned off into squads of 
one hundred which, in turn, were subdivided into smaller groups. The urgency 
for this was apparent, as meanwhile the number of our meetings had steadily 
increased. 


We still frequently met in the Munich Hofbrauhaus, but more frequently 
in larger meeting halls throughout the city. In the autumn and winter of 1920-21 
our meetings in the Burgerbrau and Miinchener-Kindl-Keller had assumed vast 
proportions and the same thing always happened, namely, that the National 
Socialist German Labour Party meetings were always crowded out so that the 
police were compelled to close and bar the doors long before the proceedings 
commenced. 


The organisation of hall-guards to keep order at our meetings cleared up 
a very difficult question. Up till then the Movement had possessed no party 
badge and no party flag. 


The lack of these tokens was not only a disadvantage at that time, but 
was bound to prove intolerable in the future. The disadvantages were chiefly 
that members of the Party possessed no outward token of membership which 
linked them together and it was absolutely unthinkable that for the future they 
should remain without some token which would be a symbol of the Movement 
and could be set against that of the International. 


More than once in my youth the psychological importance of such a 
symbol had become clearly evident to me and froma sentimental point of view 
also it was advisable. 


In Berlin, after the War, I was present at a mass demonstration of 
Marxists in the Lustgarten in front of the Royal Palace. A sea of red flags, red 
armlets and red flowers was in itself sufficient to give that huge assembly of 


556 


about one hundred and twenty thousand persons an outward appearance of 
strength. 


I was now able to feel and understand how easily the man in the street 
succumbs to the hypnotic magic of such a grandiose piece of theatrical 
demonstration. 


The bourgeoisie, which, politically speaking, neither possessed nor 
championed any Weltanschauung, had, therefore, no banner of its own. Its 
parties were composed of ‘patriots’ who appropriated the colours of the 
Reich. 


Had these colours been the symbol of a definite Weltanschauung then 
one could understand the rulers of the State regarding this flag as expressive of 
their own Weltanschauung, seeing that through their efforts the symbol of their 
Weltanschauung had become the emblem of the Reich. 


This was, however, not the case. The Reich was welded together without 
the aid of the German bourgeoisie and the flag itself was born of the War and 
was, therefore, merely a State emblem possessing no significance in the sense 
of any particular ideological mission. 


Only in one part of the German-speaking territory in German Austria was 
there anything like a bourgeois party flag in existence. Here a section of the 
national bourgeoisie selected the 1848 colours (black, red and gold) as their 
party flag and then they created a symbol which, though of no significance from 
the point of view of a Weltanschauung, had, nevertheless, a revolutionary 
character from a national political point of view. 


The most bitter opponents of this flag at that time (and this should not be 
forgotten to-day) were the Social Democrats and the Christian Socialists or the 
clergy. 


They it was, in particular, who degraded and besmirched these colours 
just as in 1918 they dragged black, white and red in the gutter. Of course, the 
black, red and gold of the German parties in the old Austria were the colours 
of the year 1848; that is to say, of a period likely to be regarded as somewhat 
visionary, but it was a period that had honest Germans as its representatives, 
although the Jews were lurking unseen as wire-pullers in the background. 


It was the act of high treason and the shameful bartering of the German 
people and German territory that first of all made these colours so attractive to 


53] 


the Marxists and the Centre Party; so much so, that to-day they revere them as 
their most cherished possession and found their own associations for the 
protection of the flag they once foully besmirched. 


It is a fact, therefore, that, up to 1920, there was no flag that could have 
stood for a Weltanschauung diametrically opposed to Marxism. 


For even if the better political elements among the German bourgeoisie 
were loath to accept the suddenly discovered black, red and gold colours as 
their symbol after the year 1918, they were nevertheless incapable of 
countering this with a programme of their own for the future. At last, they had a 
reconstruction of the old Reich in mind. 


It is to this way of thinking that the black, white and red colours of the 
old Reich are indebted for their resurrection as the flag of our so-called 
national bourgeois parties. 


It is obvious that the emblem of a regime which had been, overthrown by 
the Marxists in inglorious circumstances is not now worthy to serve as a 
banner under which the same Marxism 1s to be crushed in its turn. 


However much any honourable German may love and revere those old 
colours, glorious in their youthful freshness, if he has fought under them and 
seen the sacrifice of so many lives; they can never serve as an emblem for the 
struggle of the future. 


In our Movement I have always adopted the attitude that it was a really 
lucky thing for the German nation that it had lost its old flag. This attitude of 
mine was in strong contrast to that of the bourgeois politicians. 


It may be immaterial to us what the Republic does under its flag, but let 
us be deeply grateful to Fate for having so graciously spared the most glorious 
war flag of all time from becoming an ignominious rag. The Reich of to-day, 
which has sold itself and its people, must never be allowed to adopt the 
honourable and heroic black, white and red colours. As long as the November 
outrage endures, that outrage may continue to bear its own external sign and not 
steal that of an honourable past. Our bourgeois politicians should awaken their 
consciences to the fact that whoever desires this State to adopt the black, white 
and red colours is pilfering the past. 


The old flag was suitable only for the old Reich and, thank Heaven, the 
Republic chose the colours best suited to itself. 


558 


This was also the reason why we National Socialists recognised that to 
hoist the old colours would not be symbolic of our special aims, for we had no 
wish to resurrect from the dead the old Reich which had been ruined through 
its own blunders, but to build up a new State. 


The Movement which is fighting Marxism to-day along these lines must 
display on its banner the symbol of the new State. 


The question of the new flag, that is to say, the form and appearance it 
must take, gave us much food for thought in those days. 


Suggestions poured in from all sides, which although well-meant were 
not suitable. The new flag had not only to be a symbol expressing our own 
struggle but, on the other hand, it was necessary that it should prove effective 
as a large poster. 


All those who have to consider the tastes of the public will recognise 
and appreciate the great importance of these apparently petty details. 


In hundreds of thousands of cases a really striking emblem may be the 
first thing to awaken interest in a movement. For this reason we declined all 
suggestions from various quarters for the identification of our Movement, by 
means of a white flag, with the old State or rather with those decrepit parties 
whose sole political objective was the restoration of past conditions. 


Apart from this, white is not a colour capable of attracting and focussing 
public attention. It is a colour suitable only for temperance associations and 
not for a movement that stands for reform in a revolutionary period. 


Black was also suggested—certainly well-suited to the times, but 
embodying no significance expressive of the will behind our Movement. 
Moreover, black is incapable of attracting attention. 


White and blue were discarded, despite their admirable aesthetic appeal 
as being the colours of an individual German federal state—a state that, 
unfortunately, through its political attitude of particularist narrow-mindedness 
did not enjoy a good reputation. 


In addition, with these colours it would have been difficult to attract 
attention to our Movement. The same applies to black and white. Black, red 
and gold did not come into consideration; neither, for the reasons already 
mentioned, did black, white and red—at least not in the form hitherto in use. 


559 


But the effectiveness of these three colours is far superior to all others 
and they are certainly the most strikingly harmonious combination. 


I myself was always for keeping the old colours, not only because I, as a 
soldier, regarded them as my most sacred possession, but because in their 
aesthetic effect they are, more than any others, symbolic of my personal 
sentiments. 


Accordingly, I had to discard all the innumerable suggestions and 
designs which had been proposed for the new Movement, among which were 
many that had incorporated the swastika in a design with the old colours. 


I, as leader, was unwilling to make public my own design, as it was 
possible that someone else would come forward with a design just as good, if 
not better, than my own. 


As a matter of fact, a dental surgeon from Starnberg submitted a good 
design very similar to mine, with only one mistake, namely, that upon a white 
ground he set a swastika with curved limbs. 


After innumerable trials I decided upon a final form—a flag of red 
material with a white disc bearing in its centre a black swastika. After many 
attempts I obtained the correct proportions between the dimensions of the flag 
and that of the white central disc, as well as of the swastika. This design was 
finally adopted. 


At the same time, we immediately ordered corresponding armlets for our 
squad of men who kept order at meetings, armlets of red material bearing a 
white disc with the black swastika upon it. 


A party badge was designed on the same lines, namely, a white disc ona 
red ground bearing the swastika in the centre. Herr Fuss, a Munich goldsmith, 
supplied the first practical and permanent design for this. 


The new flag made its first appearance in public in the summer of 1920. 
It suited out Movement admirably, both being new and young. Not a soul had 
seen this flag before and its effect at that time was something akin to that of a 
flaming torch. 


We ourselves experienced almost a boyish thrill when one of the 
women-members of the Party who had been entrusted with the making of the 
flag finally handed it over to us. 


560 


A few months later we in Munich possessed six of these flags. The 
steadily increasing strength of our hall-guards was a main factor in 
popularizing the symbol, for it, became a symbol in the truest sense of the 
word. 


By incorporating those colours, dear to every one of us, which had once 
gained so much honour for the German nation it bore testimony to our 
reverence for the past and was at the same time symbolic of the Movement’s 
aims. 


Our nationalist and socialist programme was made manifest in our flag. 
The red expressed the social thought underlying the Movement, white the 
national thought, and the swastika signified the mission allotted to us—the 
struggle for the victory of Aryan mankind and at the same time the triumph of 
the ideal of creative work which in itself is, and always will be, anti-Semitic. 


Two years later, when our squad of hall-guards had long since grown 
into storm detachments, it seemed necessary to give this defensive organisation 
of a young Weltanschauung a particular symbol of victory, namely, a standard. 


I also designed this and entrusted, the execution of it to an old party 
comrade, Herr Gahr, who was a goldsmith. Ever since that time this standard 
has been the distinctive emblem of the National Socialist struggle. 


The increasing interest taken in our meetings, particularly during 1920, 
compelled us at times to hold two meetings a week. 


Crowds gathered round our posters, the large meeting-halls in the town 
were always filled and tens of thousands of people, who had been led astray 
by the teachings of Marxism, found their way back to the national community to 
assist in the work of fighting for the liberation of the Reich. 


The public in Munich had got to know us. We were being talked about. 
The term ‘National Socialist’ had become common property to many and 
signified for them a definite party programme. 


Our circle of supporters and even of members was constantly increasing, 
so that in the winter of 1920—21 we were able to appear as a strong party in 
Munich. 


At that time there was no party in Munich, with the exception of the 
Marxist parties, and certainly no nationalist party which was able to hold such 


561 


mass demonstrations as ours. The Miinchner-Kindl-Keller, which held five 
thousand people, was more than once overcrowded and up till then there was 
only one other hall, the Circus Krone, which we had not yet ventured to hire. 


At the end of January 1921 there was again great cause for anxiety in 
Germany. The Paris Agreement, by which Germany pledged herself to pay the 
crazy sum of a hundred milliard gold marks, was to be confirmed by the 
London Treaty. 


Thereupon an well-established Munich co-operative association, 
representative of so-called volkisch groups, deemed it advisable to call a 
public meeting of protest. 


I became nervous and restless when | saw that a lot of time was being 
wasted and nothing achieved. At first a meeting was suggested in the 
Konigsplatz; on second thoughts this proposal was turned down, as someone 
feared the proceedings might be wrecked by Red elements. 


Another suggestion was a demonstration in front of the Feldherrnhalle, 
but this also came to nothing. Finally, a combined meeting in the Miinchner- 
Kindl-Keller was suggested. Meanwhile day after day went by; the parties 
entirely ignored the terrible event and the cooperative association could not 
decide on a definite date for holding the demonstration. 


On Tuesday, February Ist, I put forward an urgent demand for a final 
decision. I was told I should be given it on Wednesday. On that day I demanded 
to be told clearly, if and when, the meeting was to take place. 


The reply was again uncertain and evasive, it being stated that it was 
‘intended’ to arrange a demonstration for that day week. At that I lost all 
patience and decided to conduct a meeting of protest on my own. 


At noon on Wednesday I dictated in ten minutes the text of the poster and 
at the same time hired the Circus Krone for the next day, February 3rd. 


In those days this was a tremendous venture, not only because of the 
uncertainty of filling that vast hall, but also because of the risk of the meeting 
being broken up. 


Numerically, our squad of hall-guards was not strong enough for this vast 
hall. I was also uncertain about what to do in case the meeting was broken up, 
as I imagined it would be more difficult to deal with that contingency, in the 


562 


huge circus building than in an ordinary meeting hall. 


But events showed that my fears were misplaced, the opposite being the 
case. In that vast building a band of men bent on breaking up the meeting could 
be tackled and subdued more easily than in crowded halls. 


One thing was certain—a failure would throw us back for a long time to 
come. If one meeting were broken up our prestige would be seriously injured 
and our opponents would be encouraged to repeat their success. 


That would lead to sabotage of our work in connection with further 
meetings and months of difficult struggle would be necessary to overcome this. 


We had only one day in which to post our bills, Thursday. 


Unfortunately it rained during the morning of that day and there was 
reason to fear that many people would prefer to remain at home rather than 
hurry to a meeting through rain and snow, especially when there was likely to 
be violence and bloodshed. 


Indeed on that Thursday morning I was suddenly struck by the fear that 
the hall might never be filled to capacity, which would have made me 
ridiculous in the eyes of the co-operative association. 


I therefore immediately dictated various leaflets and had them printed 
and distributed in the afternoon. Of course, they contained an invitation to 
attend the meeting. 


Two lorries which I hired were draped as much as possible in red, each 
had our new flag hoisted on it and was then ‘manned’ by fifteen or twenty 
members of our Party. 


Orders were given to the members to canvas the streets thoroughly, 
distribute leaflets and conduct propaganda for the mass meeting to be held that 
evening. It was the first time that lorries had driven through the streets bearing 
flags and not manned by Marxists. The public stared open-mouthed at these 
red-draped cars, and in the outlying districts clenched fists were angrily raised 
at this new evidence of ‘provocation of the proletariat.’ 


Were not the Marxists the only ones entitled to hold meetings and drive 
about in motor-lorries? 


By seven o’clock in the evening the circus hall was by no means full. I 


563 


was being kept informed by telephone every ten minutes and was becoming 
uneasy. 


Usually at seven or a quarter past our meeting-halls were already half- 
filled and sometimes even packed, but I soon discovered the cause of this. 


I had entirely forgotten to take into account the huge dimensions of this 
new meeting-place. A thousand people in the Hofbrauhaus was quite an 
impressive sight, but the same number in the Circus building was swallowed 
up in its vastness and was hardly noticeable. 


Shortly afterwards I received more hopeful reports and at a quarter to 
eight I was informed that the hall was three-quarters full, with huge crowds 
still lined up at the pay-boxes. I then left for the meeting. 


I arrived at the Circus building at two minutes past eight. There was still 
a crowd outside, composed partly of inquisitive people and among them many 
opponents who preferred to wait outside for developments. 


When I entered the great hall I felt the same joy I had felt a year 
previously at the first meeting in the Festsaal of the Miinchener Hofbrauhaus; 
but it was not until I had forced my way through the solid wall of people and 
reached the platform that I perceived the full measure of our success. 


The hall was before me, like a huge shell packed with thousands upon 
thousands of people. Even the arena was densely crowded. More than five 
thousand six hundred tickets had been sold and, allowing for the unemployed, 
poor students and our own detachments of men for keeping order, a crowd of 
about six thousand five hundred must have been present. 


My theme was, ‘Future or Downfall’ and I was filled with joy at the 
conviction that the future was represented by the crowd that I was addressing. 


I began, and spoke for about two and a half hours. I had the feeling after 
the first half-hour that the meeting was going to be a big success. Contact had at 
once been established with all those thousands of individuals. 


After the first hour the speech was already being received by 
spontaneous outbursts of applause, but after the second hour this died down to 
a solemn stillness which I was to experience so often later on in this same hall 
and which will be for-ever remembered by all those present. 


564 


Nothing broke, this impressive silence and only when the last word had 
been spoken did the meeting give vent to its feelings by singing the national 
anthem. I watched the scene during the next twenty minutes, as the vast hall 
slowly emptied itself, and only then did I leave the platform, a happy man, and 
make my way home. 


Photographs were taken of this first meeting in the Circus Krone in 
Munich. They are more eloquent than words in demonstrating the success of 
this meeting. The bourgeois papers reproduced photographs and reported the 
meeting as having been merely ‘nationalist’ in character-in their usual modest 
fashion they omitted all mention of its promoters. 


Thus we had, for the first time, far exceeded the limits of an ordinary 
party. We could now no longer be ignored, and to dispel all doubt that the 
meeting was merely an isolated success, I immediately arranged for another at 
the Circus Krone in the following week, with the same results. 


Once more the vast hall was filled to overflowing; so much so that I 
decided to hold a third meeting in the same hall during the following week, and 
yet a third time the immense building was filled with people. 


After these initial successes early in 1921 I increased our activity in 
Munich still further. I not only held meetings once a week, but often twice a 
week and very often during, the summer and autumn as many as three meetings 
were held every week. 


We met regularly at the Circus Hall and it gave us great satisfaction to 
see that every meeting brought us the same measure of success. 


The result was shown 1n an ever-growing number of supporters and an 
increase in the number of party members. 


Naturally the news of our success did not allow our opponents to sleep 
soundly. At first their tactics fluctuated between the use of terrorist tactics and 
silence. But as they were forced to realise that neither terrorism nor silence 
could hinder the progress of our Movement, they had recourse to a supreme act 
of terrorism which was intended to put a definite end to our activities as 
regards the holding of meetings. 


As a pretext for action along this line they took advantage of a 
mysterious attack on one of the Landtag deputies, named Erhard Auer. It was 
declared that someone had fired several shots at this man one evening, that is 


565 


to say, he was not actually hit, but an attempt had been made to shoot him. 


Fabulous presence of mind and heroic courage on the part of the Social 
Democratic leader not only foiled this dastardly attempt on his life, but also 
put the crazy would-be assassins to flight. 


They were so quick and fled so far that subsequently the police could not 
find even the slightest traces of them. This mysterious episode was used by the 
organ of the Social Democratic Party to arouse public feeling against the 
Movement and at the same time it delivered its old rigmarole about what was 
to happen in the near future. They would see to it that the proletariat would 
intervene in time and prevent us from flourishing like the green bay-tree. A 
few days later the real attack came. It was decided finally to interrupt one of 
our meetings which was billed to, take place in the Miinchener Hofbrauhaus 
and at which I myself was to speak. 


On November 4th, 1921, between six and seven o’clock in the evening, I 
received the first definite news that the meeting would positively be broken up 
and that to carry out this action our adversaries had decided to send to the 
meeting large numbers of workmen employed in certain ‘Red’ factories. 


It was due to an unfortunate accident that we did not receive this news 
sooner. On that day, we had given up our old business office in the Sternecker 
Gasse in Munich and moved into other premises; or rather we had given-up the 
old offices and our new quarters were not yet in functioning order. 


The telephone had already been cut off in the old office and had not yet 
been installed in the new one. Hence it happened that several attempts to 
inform us by telephone of the break-up which had been planned for that 
evening failed. 


Consequently our hall-guards were not present in strength at that meeting. 
There was only one squad present, which did not consist of the usual one 
hundred men, but only of about forty-six, and our machinery for giving the 
alarm was not yet sufficiently perfect for us to be able to collect within the 
space of an hour a sufficient number of guards to deal with the situation. 


It must also be added that on several previous occasions we had been 
forewarned, but nothing unusual had happened. The old saying that revolutions 
which are predicted seldom take place had hitherto proved true in our case. 


Possibly this was an additional reason why sufficient precautions had 


566 


not been taken on that day to cope with the brutal determination of our 
opponents to break up our meeting. 


Finally, we did not believe that the Hofbrauhaus in Munich was suitable 
for the interruptive tactics of our adversaries. We had feared such a thing far 
more in the bigger halls, especially in the Circus Krone, but on this point we 
were to learn a very serviceable lesson on that evening. 


Later, we studied this whole question scientifically and arrived at 
conclusions, both interesting and incredible, which were afterwards of 
fundamental importance in determining the organisation and tactics of our 
Storm Troops. 


When I arrived at the entrance hall of the Hofbrauhaus at 7:45 p.m. that 
evening, I realised that there could be no doubt as to what the Reds intended. 


The hall was filled, and for that reason the police had barred the 
entrances. Our adversaries, who had arrived very early, were in the hall, and 
our followers were, for the most part, outside. 


The small bodyguard of S.A. men awaited me at the entrance. I had the 
doors leading to the principal hall closed and then asked the bodyguard of 
forty-five or forty-six men to come forward. 


I made it clear to them that perhaps on that evening they would for the 
first time have to show their unbending and unbreakable loyalty to the 
Movement and that not one of us must leave the hall unless he were carried out 
dead. 


I added that I would remain in the hall and that I did not believe that one 
of them would abandon me, and that if I saw any one of them act the coward I 
myself would personally tear off his armlet and his badge. 


I demanded of them that they should come forward if the slightest attempt 
were made to sabotage the meeting and that they must remember that the best 
defence is always attack. 


I was answered with a triple ‘Heil’ which sounded more hoarse and 
enthusiastic than usual. 


Then I advanced through the hall and could take in the situation with my 
own eyes. Our opponents sat close together and tried to pierce me with their 


567 


looks. Innumerable pairs of eyes glowing with hatred and rage were fixed on 
me, while others with sneering faces greeted me with shouts and threats to the 
effect that they would ‘settle our hash’, that we should ‘look out for ourselves’ 
and that they would ‘stop our mouths once and for all’, along with other 
expressions of an equally elegant character. 


They knew that they were superior in numbers and they acted 
accordingly. Yet we were able to open the meeting, and I began to speak. In the 
hall of the Hofbrauhaus I always stood against one of the side walls and my 
platform was a beer table. Therefore I was always right in the midst of the 
audience. 


Perhaps this circumstance was responsible for creating a certain 
atmosphere which I never sensed elsewhere. 


Before me, and especially towards my left, there were only opponents, 
seated or standing. They were mostly robust youths and men from the Maffei 
Factory, from Kustermann’s, from the Isaria meter works, etc. 


Along the left-hand wall of the hall they had pushed their way close to 
my table and now began to collect beer-mugs, that is to say, they ordered one 
beer after another and placed the empty mugs under the tables. 


In this way they succeeded in collecting whole batteries of ammunition, 
and no one would have been more surprised than I, had the meeting passed off 
quietly. 


In spite of all the interruptions, I was able to speak for about an hour and 
a half and I began to feel that I was master of the situation. 


Even the ringleaders among the disturbers appeared to be convinced of 
this, for they steadily became more uneasy, often left the hall, returned and 
spoke to their men in an obviously nervous way. 


A small psychological error which I committed in replying to an 
interruption, a mistake of which I myself was conscious the moment the words 
had left my mouth, gave the sign for the outbreak. 


There were a few furiously angry shouts and all in a moment a man 
jumped on a seat and shouted ‘Liberty!’ 


At that signal the champions of liberty began their work. 


568 


In a few moments the hall was filled with a yelling shrieking mob. 
Numerous beer-mugs flew like shells above their heads. Amid this din, one 
heard the crash of chair legs, the crashing of mugs, shouts, yells and screams. 


It was a mad uproar and I should just like to have seen such a scene 
enacted at a bourgeois meeting. I stood were I was and could observe my men 
doing their duty, every one of them. 


The fun had hardly begun when my Storm Troops, as they were called 
from that day onwards, launched their attack. Like wolves they threw 
themselves on the enemy again and again, in parties of eight or ten and began 
steadily to drive them out of the hall. 


After five minutes I could see hardly one of them that was not streaming 
with blood. Then I realised what kind of men many of them were, above all my 
brave Maurice and Hess, who is my private secretary to-day, and many others 
who, even though seriously wounded, returned to the attack again and again, as 
long as they could stand on their feet. 


Pandemonium reigned for some twenty minutes and by that time our 
opponents, who had numbered seven or eight hundred, had been driven from 
the hall or hurled out headlong by my men, who had not numbered fifty. 


Only, in the left corner a big crowd was still standing out against our 
men and putting up a stiff fight. Then two pistol-shots rang out from the 
entrance to the hall and immediately wild shooting broke out on all sides. 
One’s heart almost rejoiced at this spectacle which recalled memories of the 
War. 


At that moment it was not possible to identify the persons who had fired 
the shots, but at any rate I could see that my men had returned to the attack with 
increased fury, until finally the last disturbers were overcome and flung out of 
the hall. 


About twenty-five minutes had passed since it all began. The hall looked 
as 1f a bomb had exploded there. 


Many of my comrades were being bandaged and others were being taken 
away, but we remained masters of the situation. Hermann Esser, who was 
chairman of the meeting, announced, ‘The meeting will continue. The speaker 
will proceed.’ So I went on with my speech. 


569 


When we ourselves had declared the meeting at an end, an excited police 
officer rushed in, waved his arms and declared, ‘The meeting is dissolved.’ 


I could not help laughing at this example of the law’s delay. It was 
typical of the officiousness of the police. The more insignificant they are, the 
more important they try to appear. 


That evening taught us many a lesson and our adversaries never forgot 
the lesson they had received. 


Up to the autumn of 1923 the Minchener Post did not again threaten us 
with the clenched fist of the proletariat. 


570 


571 


S12 
