On February 24th 1920, the first great mass meeting under the auspices 
of, the new movement took place. In the Hofbrauhaus-Festsaal in Munich the 
twenty-five theses which constituted the programme of our new Party were 
expounded to an audience of nearly two thousand people and each thesis was 
enthusiastically received. 


Thus we brought to the knowledge of the public the first principles and 
lines of action along which was to be conducted the new struggle for the 
abolition of a confused mass of obsolete ideas and opinions which had obscure 
and often pernicious tendencies. 


A new force was to make its appearance among the timid and cowardly 
bourgeoisie. This force was destined to impede the triumphant advance of the 
Marxists and bring the chariot of Fate to a standstill just as it seemed about to 
reach its goal. 


It was evident that this new movement could gain the public significance 
and support which are necessary prerequisites in such a gigantic struggle only 
if it succeeded from the very outset in awakening a sacred conviction in the 
hearts of its followers. 


It was not a case of introducing a new electoral-slogan into the political 
field, but that an entirely new Weltanschauung of radical significance had to 
be established. One must try to recall from what a feeble jumble of opinions 
the so-called party programmes are usually ‘cooked’ and brushed up or 
remodelled from time to time. 


If we want to gain an insight into these programmatic monstrosities we 
must carefully investigate the motives which inspire the average bourgeois 
‘programme committee.’ 


They are always influenced by one and the same preoccupation when 
they introduce something new into their programme or modify something 
already contained in it, namely, the results of the next election. 


The moment these artists in parliamentary government have the first 
glimmering of a suspicion that their beloved public may be ready to kick up its 


417 


heels and escape from the harness of the old party wagon they begin to paint 
the shafts in new colours. 


On such occasions the party astrologists and horoscope readers, the so- 
called ‘shrewd and experienced men,’ come forward. For the most part they 
are old parliamentary hands whose political schooling has furnished them with 
ample experience. 


They can remember former occasions when the masses showed signs of 
losing patience and they now sense the imminence of a similar situation. 


Resorting to their old prescription, they form a ‘committee.’ They go 
around among their beloved public and listen to what is being said. They 
carefully digest newspaper articles and gradually begin to sense what the 
broad masses really want, what they abhor and what they hope for. 


Every section of the working community and every class of employee is 
carefully studied and their secret wishes weighed and considered. 


Even the malicious slogans of a dangerous opposition are now suddenly 
looked upon as worthy of consideration, and to the astonishment of those who 
originally coined and circulated them, appear innocently and as a matter of 
course in the official vocabulary of the older parties. 


So the committees meet to revise the old programme and draw up a new 
one, for these people change their convictions just as the soldier changes his 
shirt in war-time when the old one is lousy. 


In the new programme, everyone gets everything he wants. The farmer is 
assured that the interests of agriculture will be safeguarded, the industrialist is 
assured of protection for his products, the consumer is assured that his interests 
will be protected in regards to market prices. 


Teachers are given higher salaries and civil servants will have better 
pensions. Widows and orphans will receive generous assistance from the 
State. 


Trade will be promoted. Tariffs will be lowered and even taxes, though 
they cannot be entirely abolished, will be almost done away with. 


It sometimes happens that one section of the public is forgotten or that 
one of the demands mooted by the public has not reached the ears of the party. 


418 


In such a case what can still be pushed on to the programme, 1s hastily 
added, until finally it is felt that there are good grounds for hoping that the 
whole host of Philistines, including their wives, will have their anxieties laid 
to rest and will beam with satisfaction once again. 


And so, internally armed with faith in the goodness of God and the 
impenetrable stupidity of the electorate, the struggle for what is called ‘the 
reconstruction of the Reich’ can now begin. 


When the election day is over and the parliamentarians have held their 
last public meeting for the next five years, when they can leave their job of 
getting the populace to toe the line and can now devote themselves to higher 
and more pleasing tasks, then the programme committee is dissolved. 


The struggle for the progressive reorganisation of public affairs becomes 
once again a business of earning one’s daily bread, which for the 
parliamentarian, merely means drawing his salary. Morning after morning, the 
honourable member wends his way to the House, and though he may not enter 
the Chamber itself, he gets at least as far as the lobby, where there is the 
register of members attending the meeting. 


His onerous service on behalf of his constituents consists in entering his 
name and he receives in return a small indemnity as the well-earned reward of 
his unceasing and exhausting labours. 


After the lapse of four years, or if any crisis arises in which parliament 
seems faced with the danger of dissolution, these gentlemen are suddenly fired 
with the desire for action. 


Just as the grub-worm cannot help growing into a cockchafer, these 
parliamentarian worms leave the great House of Puppets and on new wings 
flutter out among the beloved public. 


They address the electors once again, give an account of the enormous 
labours they have accomplished and emphasise the malicious obstinacy of their 
opponents. 


They do not always meet with grateful applause, for occasionally the 
unintelligent masses throw rude and unfriendly remarks in their faces. 


When this spirit of public ingratitude reaches a certain pitch, there is 
only one way of saving the situation. The prestige of the party must be 


419 


burnished up once again. The programme has to be amended, the committee is 
called into existence once more, and so the swindle begins anew. 


Once we understand the impenetrable stupidity of our public, we cannot 
be surprised that such tactics prove successful. Led by the press and blinded 
once again by the alluring appearance of the new programme, the bourgeois, as 
well as the proletarian herds of voters, faithfully return to the fold and re-elect 
their old deceivers. 


The ‘people’s man’ and labour candidate now change back again into the 
parliamentarian grub and become fat and rotund as they batten on the leaves 
that grow on the tree of public life to be retransformed into the glittering 
butterfly after another four years have passed. 


Scarcely anything can be so depressing as to watch this process in sober 
reality and to be forced to observe this repeatedly recurring fraud. 


On a spiritual training ground of that kind it is not possible for the 
bourgeois forces to develop the strength which is necessary to carry on the 
fight against the organised might of Marxism. Indeed, they have never seriously 
thought of doing so. 


Despite the admitted limitations or mental inferiority of the white race’s 
parliamentary ‘medicine-men,’ they cannot seriously imagine that they can use 
Western Democracy as a weapon to fight against an ideology whose supporters 
regard democracy and all its ramifications merely as a means of paralysing 
their opponents and gaining for themselves a free hand to put their own 
methods into action. Certain groups of Marxists are, for the time being, using 
all their ingenuity to create the impression that they are inseparably attached to 
the principles of democracy. 


It may be well to recall the fact that, when a crisis arose, these same 
gentlemen snapped their fingers at the principle of decision by majority vote, 
as that principle is understood by Western Democracy. 


Such was the case in those days when the bourgeois parliamentarians 
believed that the security of the Reich was guaranteed by the monumental 
short-sightedness of the overwhelming majority, whereas the Marxists, backed 
by a mob of loafers, deserters, political place-hunters and Jewish would-be 
literary men, simply seized the reins of government. 


This was a terrible blow to democracy. Only those credulous 


420 


parliamentary wizards who represented bourgeois democracy could have 
believed that the brutal determination of those whose interest it is to spread the 
Marxist world-pest, of which they are the carriers, could for a moment, now, 
or in the future, be held in check by the magical formulas of western 
parliamentarianism. 


Marxism will march shoulder to shoulder with democracy until it 
succeeds indirectly in securing for its own criminal purposes, even the support 
of the intelligentsia of the nation whom Marxism has set out to exterminate. 


But, if the Marxists should one day come to believe that there was a 
danger that from this witch’s cauldron of our parliamentary democracy a 
majority might be concocted, which, if merely by reason of its numerical 
weight, would be ina position to legislate and thus to constitute a serious 
threat to Marxism, then the whole parliamentarian hocus-pocus would be at an 
end. 


Instead of appealing to the democratic conscience, the leaders of the Red 
International would immediately send forth a furious rallying-cry to the 
proletarian masses and the ensuing fight would not take place in the sedate 
atmosphere of parliament, but in the factories and in the streets. 


Then democracy would be annihilated forthwith, and what the 
intellectual prowess of the apostles who represented the people in parliament 
had failed to accomplish, would now be successfully carried out by dint of the 
crow-bar and the sledge-hammer of the exasperated proletarian masses just as 
in the autumn of 1918. 


At one fell swoop they would make the bourgeois world see the madness 
of thinking that the Jewish drive towards world-conquest can be effectually 
opposed by means of Western Democracy. 


As I have said, only a very credulous soul could think of binding himself 
to observe the rules of the game when he has to face a player for whom those 
rules are nothing but a pretext for bluff or for serving his own interests, so that 
he will discard them when they prove no longer useful for his purpose. All the 
parties that profess so-called bourgeois principles look upon political life as 
being in reality a struggle for seats in parliament. The moment their principles 
and convictions are of no further use in that struggle they throw them 
overboard, as if they were sand ballast, and the programmes are constructed in 
such a way that they can be dealt with in like manner. 


421 


But such a practice has a correspondingly weakening effect on the 
strength of the parties concerned. They lack the great magnetic force which 
alone attracts the broad masses, for the masses always respond to the 
compelling force which emanates from absolute faith in the ideas put forward, 
combined with an indomitable zest to fight for and defend them. 


At a time when the one side, armed with all the weapons of its 
Weltanschauung, no matter how criminal, makes an attack against the 
established order, the other side will be able to resist only if its resistance 
takes the form of a new faith. In our case, this is a political faith which 
exchanges the slogans of weak and cowardly defence for the battle-cry of a 
courageous and ruthless attack. 


Our present Movement is accused, especially by the so-called national 
bourgeois cabinet ministers (the Bavarian representatives of the Centre, for 
example) of heading towards a revolution. 


We have only one answer to give to those political pygmies, namely, ‘We 
are trying to remedy that which you, in your criminal stupidity, have failed to 
accomplish. By your parliamentarian jobbing you have helped to drag the 
nation into ruin, but we, by our aggressive policy, are setting up a new 
Weltanschauung which we shall defend with indomitable devotion. Thus we 
are building the steps on which our nation once again may ascend to the temple 
of freedom.’ 


Thus during the first stages of founding our Movement we had to take 
special care that our militant group, which fought for the establishment of a 
new and exalted political faith, should not degenerate into a society for the 
promotion of parliamentarian interests. 


The first preventive measure was to lay down a programme which of 
itself would tend towards developing a certain moral greatness that would 
scare away all the petty and weakling spirits who make up the bulk of our 
present party politicians. 


Those fatal defects which finally led to Germany’s downfall afford the 
clearest proof of how right we were in considering it absolutely necessary to 
set up programmatic aims which were sharply ,and distinctly defined. 


Because we recognised the defects above mentioned, we realised that a 
new conception of the State had to be established, which in itself became a 


422 


part of our new conception of life. 


In the first volume of this book I have already dealt with the term 
volkisch, and I said then that this term has not a sufficiently precise meaning to 
furnish the kernel around which a closely consolidated militant community 
could be formed. All kinds of persons, with all kinds of divergent, opinions, 
are, at the present time, playing their own game under the motto volkisch. 


Before I come to deal with the purposes and aims of the National 
Socialist German Labour Party I want to establish a clear understanding of 
what is meant by the concept volkisch and herewith explain its relation to our 
party movement. 


The word volkisch does not express any clearly specified idea. It may be 
interpreted in several ways and in practical application it is just as general as 
the word ‘religious,’ for instance. 


It is difficult to attach any precise meaning to this latter word, either as a 
theoretical concept or as a guiding principle in practical life. 


The word ‘religious’ acquires a precise meaning only when it is 
associated with a distinct and definite form through which the concept is put 
into practice. 


To say that a person is ‘deeply religious’ may be very fine phraseology, 
but generally speaking, it tells us little or nothing. 


There may be some few people who are content with such a vague 
description and there may even be some to whom the word conveys a more or 
less definite picture of the inner quality of a person thus described. 


But, since the bulk of the people are not philosophers or saints, such a 
vague religious idea will mean to the individual merely that he is justified in 
thinking and acting according to his own bent. 


It will not lead to that practical faith into which inner religious yearning 
is transformed only when it leaves the sphere of general metaphysical ideas 
and is moulded to a well-defined belief. 


Such a belief is certainly not an end in itself, but the means to an end. Yet 
it is means without which the end could never be reached at all. 


This end, however, is not merely something ideal, for at bottom it is 


423 


eminently practical. We must always bear in mind the fact that, generally 
speaking, the highest ideals are always the outcome of some profound vital 
need, just as the nobility of beauty lies essentially in its practical value. 


By helping to lift the human being above the level of mere animal 
existence, faith really contributes to consolidate and safeguard his very 
existence. 


Take from humanity as it exists to-day the religious beliefs which it 
generally holds and which have been consolidated through our education, so 
that they serve as moral standards in practical life, and abolish religious 
teaching without replacing it by anything of equal value and the foundations of 
human existence would be seriously shaken. 


We may safely say that man does not live merely to serve higher ideals, 
but that these ideals, in their turn, furnish the necessary conditions for his 
existence as a human being. Thus the circle is completed. 


Of course, the word ‘religious’ implies certain ideals and beliefs that are 
fundamental. Among these we may reckon the belief in the immortality of the 
soul, its future existence in eternity, the belief in the existence of a Higher 
Being, and so on. 


But all these ideas, no matter how firmly the individual believes in them, 
may be critically analysed by any person and accepted or rejected accordingly, 
until the emotional concept or yearning has been transformed into an active 
force that is governed by a clearly defined doctrinal faith. 


Such a faith constitutes the militant feature which clears the way for the 
recognition of fundamental religious ideals. Without a clearly defined belief, 
religious feeling would not only be worthless for the purposes of human 
existence, but might even contribute towards general disorganisation, on 
account of its vague and multifarious tendencies. 


What I have said about the word ‘religious’ can also be applied to the 
term volkisch. This word also implies certain fundamental ideas. 


Though these ideas are very important indeed, they assume such vague 
and indefinite forms that they cannot be estimated as having a greater value 
than mere opinions, until they become constituent elements in the structure of a 
political party. 


424 


The ideals set forth in a Weltanschauung and the demands arising from 
them cannot be realised by mere sentiment and inner longing any more than 
freedom can be won by universal yearning for it. 


Only when the idealistic longing for independence 1s organised in such a 
way that it can fight for its ideal with military force, only then can the urgent 
wish of a people become a vital reality. 


Any Weltanschauung, though a thousandfold right and supremely 
beneficial to humanity, will be of no practical assistance in moulding the life of 
a people as long as its principles have not yet become the rallying-point of a 
militant movement which, in its turn, will remain a mere party until its 
activities have led to the victory of its ideals and its party doctrines form the 
new fundamental principles of a new national community. 


If an abstract conception of a general nature is to serve as the basis of a 
future development, then the first prerequisite is to forma clear understanding 
of the nature, character and scope of this conception, since only on such a basis 
can a movement be founded which can draw the necessary fighting strength 
from the infernal homogeneity of its principles and convictions. 


A political programme must be constructed on a basis of general ideas 
and a general Weltanschauung must receive the stamp of a definite political 
faith. 


Since this faith must be directed towards ends that have to be attained in 
the world of practical reality, not only must it serve the general ideal as such, 
but it must also take into consideration the existing means that have to be 
employed for the triumph of the ideal. Here the practical wisdom, of the 
statesman must come to the assistance of the ideal, correct in the abstract, as 
evolved by the author of the political programme. 


In this way an eternal ideal, which has everlasting significance as a 
guiding star to mankind, must be adapted to the exigencies of human frailty so 
that its practical effect may not be frustrated at the very outset through those 
shortcomings which are general to mankind. 


The exponent of truth must here go hand in hand with him who has a 
practical knowledge of the mind of the people, so that from the realm of eternal 
verities and ideals what is suited to the capacities of human nature may be 
selected and given practical form. 


425 


To take abstract and general conceptions, derived froma 
Weltanschauung whichis based on a solid foundation of truth and from them to 
mould a militant community whose members have the same political faith (a 
community which is precisely defined, rigidly organised, of and mind and one 
will) is the most important task of all, far the possibility of successfully 
carrying out the idea is dependent on the successful fulfilment of this task. 


Out of the army of millions who feel, more or less clearly, the truth of 
these ideas, and may even understand them to some extent, one man must arise. 


This man must have the gift of being able to formulate from the vague 
ideas held by the masses, principles that will be as clear-cut and firm as 
granite and he must be able to fight for these principles as the only true ones, 
until a solid rock of common faith and common will emerges above the 
troubled waters of vagrant ideas. 


The general justification for such action lies in the necessity for it and 
the action of the individual will be justified by his success. 


If we try to penetrate the inner meaning of the word vdlkisch we arrive at 
the following conclusion. The current political conception of the world is that 
the State, though it possesses a creative force which can build up civilisations, 
has nothing in common with the concept of race as the foundation of the State. 


The State is considered rather as something which has resulted from 
economic necessity or is, at best, the natural outcome of political urge for 
power. 


Such a conception together with all its logical consequences, not only 
ignores the primordial racial forces that underlie the State, but it also leads to 
a minimization of the importance of the individual. 


If it be denied that races differ from one another in their cultural creative 
ability, then this same erroneous notion must necessarily influence our 
estimation of the value of the individual. The assumption that all races are 
alike leads to the assumption that nations and individuals are equal to one 
another. Therefore, international Marxism is merely the adoption by the Jew, 
Karl Marx, of a general conception of life, which had existed long before his 
day, as a definite profession of political faith. 


If it had not already existed as a widely diffused infection, the amazing 
political progress of the Marxist teaching would never have been possible. 


426 


In reality what distinguished Karl Marx from the millions who were 
affected in the same way was that, ina world already in a state of gradual 
decomposition, he used the unerring instinct of the prophetic genius to detect 
the essential poisons, so as to extract them and concentrate them, with the art of 
an alchemist, in a solution which would bring about the rapid destruction of the 
independent nations of the earth. All this was done in the service of his race. 


Thus the Marxian doctrine 1s the concentrated extract of the mentality 
which underlies the general Weltanschauung to-day. 


For this reason alone it is out of the question and even ridiculous to think 
that what is called our bourgeois world can put up any effective fight against 
Marxism, for this bourgeois world is permeated with all those same poisons, 
and its Weltanschauung in general differs from Marxism only in degree and in 
the character of the persons who hold it. 


The bourgeois world is Marxist, but believes in the possibility of a 
certain group of people—that is to say, the bourgeoisie—being able to 
dominate the world, while Marxism itself systematically aims at delivering the 
world into the hands of the Jews. 


Over against all this, the volkisch Weltanschauung recognises that the 
primordial racial elements are of the greatest significance for mankind. 


In principle, the State is looked upon only as a means to an end and this 
end is the conservation of the racial characteristics of mankind. 


The volkisch principle does not admit that one race is equal to another, 
but by recognising that they are different, separates mankind into races of 
superior and inferior quality. 


On the basis of this recognition it feels bound, in conformity with the 
Eternal Will that dominates the universe, to postulate the victory of the better 
and stronger and the subordination of the inferior and weaker thus subscribing 
to Nature’s fundamental aristocratic principle and it believes that this law 
holds good even down to the last individual organism. 


It selects individual values from the mass and thus operates as an 
organising principle, whereas Marxism acts as a disintegrating solvent. 


The vdlkisch belief holds that humanity must have its ideals, because 
ideals are a necessary condition of human existence itself. 


427 


But, on the other hand, it denies that an ethical ideal has the right to 
prevail if it endangers the existence of a race that is the champion of a higher 
ethical ideal, for ina world composed of mongrels and Negroids all ideals of 
human beauty and nobility and all hopes of an idealised future for humanity 
would be lost for ever. 


On this planet of ours human culture and civilisation are indissolubly 
bound up with the presence of the Aryan. If he were to be exterminated or 
become extinct, then the dark shroud of a new barbaric era would enfold the 
earth. 


To undermine the existence of human culture by exterminating its 
custodians would be an execrable crime in the eyes of those who subscribe to 
the volkisch Weltanschauung. 


Whoever dares to raise his hand against the highest image of God, sins 
against the bountiful Creator of this marvel and contributes to the expulsion 
from Paradise. 


Hence the volkisch Weltanschauung 1s in profound accord with Nature’s 
most sacred will, because it restores the free play of the forces which, through 
reciprocal education, will produce a higher type, until finally the best portion 
of mankind will possess the earth and will be free to work in spheres which lie 
not only within, but without the limits of that earth. 


We all feel that in the distant future man may be faced with problems 
which can be solved only by a superior race of human beings, which is master 
over all the other peoples and has at its disposal the means and resources of 
the whole world. 


It is evident that such a general definition of what is implied by the term 
volkisch Weltanschauung may easily be interpreted in a thousand different 
ways. 


As a matter of fact, there is scarcely one of our recently founded 
political parties which does not in some manner have recourse to this 
conception; but the very fact of its independent existence, despite the many 
others, goes to prove its infinite variety. 


Thus the Marxist conception, directed by a central organisation endowed 
with supreme authority, is opposed by a medley of opinions which are not 
ideologically impressive in face of the solid phalanx presented by the enemy. 


428 


Victory cannot be achieved with such weak weapons. Only when the 
international Weltanschauung politically directed by organised Marxism is 
confronted by a volkisch Weltanschauung equally well-organised and equally 
well-directed will the one side do battle with the other on an equal footing and 
victory be on the side of eternal truth. 


The organisation and mobilisation of a Weltanschauung can never be 
carried out except on a basis of its clear definition. 


The function which dogma fulfils in religious beliefs comparable to the 
function which party principles fulfil in a political party which is in the 
process of being built up. It is, therefore, essential to forge an instrument 
which, like the Marxist party organisation which clears the way for 
internationalism, can be used in fighting for this ideal. This is the aim which 
the National Socialist German Labour Party pursues. 


That a definite formulation of the idea vé/kisch in connection with a 
party movement is a prerequisite for the triumph of the volkisch 
Weltanschauung 1s strikingly proved by a fact which is admitted, however 
indirectly, even by ,those who oppose such an amalgamation of the volkisch 
idea with party principles. 


The very people who never tire of insisting again and again that the 
volkisch Weltanschauung can never be the exclusive property of any 
individual, because it lies dormant or ‘lives’ in myriads of hearts, only confirm 
by their own statement the simple fact that the general presence of such ideas in 
the hearts of millions of men has not proved sufficient to prevent the victory of 
the opposing ideas, which are, admittedly, championed on the recognised party 
political lines. 


If that were not so, the German people ought already to have gained a 
sweeping victory instead of finding themselves on the brink of the abyss. 


The international ideology achieved success because it was championed 
by a militantly organised party. 

The reason for the failure hitherto sustained by the opposite ideology is 
that it lacked a united front to fight for its cause. 


It is not by allowing the right of free interpretation of its general 
principles, but only in the limited and, consequently, concentrated form of a 
political organisation that a Weltanschauung can sustain a struggle and 


429 


triumph. 


Therefore, I considered it my special duty to extract from the extensive 
but unformulated material of a general Weltanschauung the essential ideas and 
give them a more or less dogmatic form. 


Because of their precise and clear meaning, these ideas are suited to the 
purpose of uniting in a common front all those who are ready to accept them as 
principles. 


In other words, the National Socialist German Labour Party extracts the 
essential principles from the general conception of the volkisch 
Weltanschauung. 


On these principles it establishes a political doctrine which takes into 
account the practical realities of the day, the character of the times, the 
available human material and all its deficiencies. 


Through this political doctrine it is possible to bring great masses of the 
people into a systematic organisation which is the main preliminary that is 
necessary for the final triumph of this ideal. 


430 


431 


432 
