If the principal duty of the national socialist volkisch State be to educate 
and promote the existence of those who constitute the material out of which the 
State is formed, it will not be sufficient to promote those racial elements as 
such, educate them and finally train them for practical life. The State must also 
adapt its own organisation to meet the exigencies of this task. 


It would be absurd to appraise a man’s worth by the race to which he 
belongs, and at the same time to make war against the Marxist principle that all 
men are equal, without being determined to pursue our own principle to its 
logical conclusion. 


If we admit the significance of blood, that is to say, if we recognise the 
race as the fundamental element on which all life is based, we shall have to 
apply to the individual the logical consequences of this principle. 


In general I must estimate the worth of nations differently, on the basis of 
the different races from which they spring, and I must also differentiate in 
estimating the, worth of the individual within his own race. 


The principle that one people is not the same as another, applies also to 
the individual members of a national community, just as no one man, for 
instance, is equal to another, because the constituent elements belonging to the 
same blood vary in a thousand subtle details, though they are fundamentally of 
the same quality. 


The first consequence of recognition of this fact is, if I may use such an 
expression, somewhat crude, being an attempt to help and promote those 
elements within the folk-community which are of particular value from the 
racial point of view and to encourage them to increase and multiply. 


This task is comparatively simple because it can be recognised and 
carried out almost mechanically. 


It is much more difficult to select from among the whole bulk of the 
people those who actually possess the highest intellectual and spiritual 
characteristics and to assign them to that sphere of influence which not only 
corresponds to their outstanding talents, but in which their activities will be of 


498 


benefit to the nation. 


Selection according to capacity and efficiency cannot be effected ina 
mechanical way. It is a work which can be accomplished only through the 
permanent struggle of everyday life itself. A Weltanschauung which repudiates 
the democratic principle of the rule of the masses and aims at giving this world 
to the best people—that is, to the highest quality of mankind—must also apply 
that same aristocratic postulate to the individuals within the folk-community. 


It must take care that the positions of leadership and highest influence are 
given to the best men. Hence it is not based on the idea of the majority, but on 
that of personality. 


Anyone who believes that the volkisch National Socialist State should 
distinguish itself from the other States only mechanically, as it were, through 
the better construction of its economic life—thanks to a better equilibrium 
between poverty and riches, or to the extension to broader masses of the power 
to determine the economic process, or to a fairer wage-system, or to the 
elimination of vast differences in the scale of salaries—understands only the 
superficial feature, of our Movement and has not the least idea of what we man 
when we speak of our Weltanschauung. 


All these features just mentioned could not guarantee us a lasting 
existence and certainly would be no warranty of greatness. 


A nation that could content itself with external reforms, would not have 
the slightest chance of success in the general struggle for life among the nations 
of the world. 


A movement that confined its mission to such adjustments, however right 
and equitable, would effect no far-reaching or profound reform of the existing 
order. 


The whole effect of such measures would be limited to externals. They 
would not furnish the nation with that moral armament which alone will enable 
it effectively to overcome the weaknesses from which we are suffering to-day. 


In order to elucidate this point of view it may be worth while to glance 
once again at the real origins and causes of the cultural evolution of mankind. 


The first step which visibly raised mankind above the animal world was 
that which led to the first invention. 


499 


The invention itself owes its origin to the ruses and stratagems which 
man employed to assist him in the struggle for existence against, other 
creatures and often to provide him with the only means he could adopt to 
achieve success in this struggle. 


Those first very crude inventions do not reveal the individual 
personality, for the subsequent observer, that is to say, the modern observer, 
recognises them only as collective phenomena. 


Certain tricks and skilful tactics which can be observed among animals 
strike the eye of the observer as established facts which may be seen 
everywhere and man is no longer ina position to discover or explain their 
primary cause and so he contents himself with calling such phenomena 
instinctive. 


In our case, this term has no meaning, because everyone who believes in 
the higher evolution of living organisms must admit that every manifestation of 
the vital urge and struggle to live must have had a definite, beginning in time 
and that one subject alone must have manifested it for the first time. 


It was then repeated again and again, and the practice of it spread over a 
widening area, until finally it passed into the subconsciousness of every 
member of the species, where it manifested itself as ‘instinct.’ 


This is more easily understood and more easy to believe in the case of 
man. His first skilled tactics in the struggle against the rest of the animals 
undoubtedly originated with individuals possessing special capabilities. 


There can be no doubt that personality was then the sole factor in all 
decisions and achievements which were afterwards taken over by the whole of 
humanity as a matter of course. 


An exact exemplification of this may be found in those fundamental 
military principles which have now become the basis of all strategy in war. 


Originally, they sprang from the brain of a single individual and in the 
course of many years, maybe even thousands of years, they were accepted all 
around as a matter of course and thus gained universal validity. 


Man supplemented his first discovery by making a second. Among other 
things he learned how to master other living beings and make then serve him in 
his struggle for existence, and thus began the real inventive activity of mankind, 


500 


as it is now evident to its. 


Those material inventions, beginning with the use of stones as weapons, 
which led to the domestication of animals and the production of fire by 
artificial means, down to the many marvellous inventions of our own day, 
reveal more clearly the individual as the originator, the nearer we come to our 
own time and the more important and revolutionary the inventions become. 


All the material inventions which we see around us have been produced 
by the creative powers and capabilities of individuals, and all these inventions 
help man to raise himself higher and higher above the animal world and to 
separate himself from that world in an absolutely definite way. 


Hence, they serve fundamentally to promote the continued progress of the 
human species. What the most primitive artifice once did for man in his 
struggle for existence, as he went hunting in the primeval forest, is being done 
for him today in the form of marvellous scientific inventions which help him to 
wage the present-day struggle for life and forge weapons for future struggles. 


Ultimately, all human thought and all human inventions help man in his 
life-struggle on this planet, even though the so-called practical utility of an 
invention, a discovery or a profound scientific theory, may not be evident at 
first sight. 


Everything contributes to raise man higher and higher above the level of 
all the other creatures that surround him, thereby strengthening and 
consolidating his position, so that he develops more and more in every 
direction as the ruling being on this earth. 


Hence, all inventions are the result of the creative faculty of the 
individual and all such individuals, whether they have willed it or not, are, ina 
greater or lesser degree, benefactors of mankind. 


Through their work millions, and indeed billions, of human beings have 
been provided with means which facilitate their struggle for existence. 


If then we see the inventive minds to which we owe the origin of the 
material civilisation of our day, as individuals who supplement one another 
and continue the work their predecessors have begun, the same is true in regard 
to the practical application of those inventions and discoveries. For all the 
various methods of production are in their turn inventions also and 
consequently dependent on the creative faculty of the individual. 


501 


Even the purely theoretical work, which cannot be measured by a 
definite rule and is preliminary to all subsequent technical discoveries, is 
exclusively the product of the individual brain. 


Humanity in bulk does not turn out inventions, nor does the majority 
organise and think, but only the individual man. 


Accordingly, a human community is well organised only when it 
facilitates to the highest possible degree individual creative forces and utilises 
their work for the benefit of the community. 


The most valuable factor of an invention, whether it be in the world of 
material realities or in the world of abstract ideas, is the personality of the 
inventor himself. 


The first and supreme duty of an organised folk-community is to place 
the inventor in a position where he can be of the greatest benefit to all. 


Indeed, the very purpose of the organisation is to put this principle into 
practice. Only by so doing can it ward off the curse of mechanisation and 
become a living thing. 


In itself it must personify the effort to place men of brains above the 
multitude and to make the latter obey the former. 


Therefore, not only does the organisation possess no right to prevent men 
of brains from rising above the multitude but, on the contrary, 1t must use its 
organising powers to enable and promote their progress as far as it possibly 
can. 


It must set out from the principle that the blessings of mankind never 
came from the masses, but from the creative brains of individuals, who are 
therefore the real benefactors of humanity. 


It is in the interest of all to ensure men of creative brains a decisive 
influence and facilitate their work. This common interest is surely not served 
by allowing the multitude to rule, for it 1s not capable of thinking nor is it 
efficient and in no circumstances whatsoever can it be said to be gifted. 


Only those should rule who have the natural temperament and gifts of 
leadership. 


Such men of brains are selected mainly, as I have already said, through 


502 


the hard struggle for existence itself. 


In this struggle there are many who break down and collapse and thereby 
show that they are not called upon by Destiny to fill the highest positions, and 
only very few are left who can be classed among the elect. 


In the realm of thought and of artistic creation, and even in the economic 
field, this same process of selection takes place even to-day, although— 
especially in the economic field—its operation is heavily handicapped. 


This same principle of selection holds good in the administration of the 
State and in that force which is represented by the organised military defence 
of the nation. 


The idea of personality, of the authority of the individual over his 
subordinates and of the responsibility of the individual towards the persons 
who are placed over him dominates in every sphere of life. It 1s only in 
political life that this very natural principle has been completely ignored. 


Though all human civilisation has resulted exclusively from the creative 
activity of the individual, the principle that it is ‘the majority which counts,’ 
persists throughout the entire, national community and more especially as 
regards its administration, whence the poison gradually filters into all branches 
of national life, thus causing a veritable decomposition. 


The destructive activities of Judaism in different parts of the national 
body can be ascribed fundamentally to the persistent Jewish efforts at 
undermining the importance of personality among the nations that are their 
hosts and, in place of personality, substituting the domination of the masses. 


The constructive principle of Aryan humanity is thus displaced by the 
destructive principle of the Jews. They are the ferment of decomposition’ 
among nations and races and, ina broad sense, the wreckers of human 
civilisation. 


Marxism represents the most striking phase of the Jewish endeavour to 
eliminate the dominant significance of personality in every sphere of human 
life and to replace it by the numerical power of the masses. 


In politics the parliamentary form of government is the expression of this 
effort. We can observe the fatal effects of it everywhere, from the smallest 
parish council upwards to the highest government circles in the Reich. 


503 


In the field of economics we have the trade-union movement, which 
serves not the real interests of the employees, but the destructive aims of 
international Jewry. In the same degree in which the principle of personality is 
excluded from the economic life of the nation, and the influence and activities 
of the masses substituted in its stead, national economy, which should be for 
the service and benefit of the community as a whole, will gradually deteriorate 
in creative capacity. 


The works committees which, instead of caring for the interests of the 
employees, strive to influence the process of production, serve the same 
destructive purpose. 


They damage production as a whole and consequently injure the 
individual engaged in industry, for in the long run it is impossible to satisfy 
popular demands merely by high-sounding theoretical phrases. 


These can be satisfied only by supplying goods to meet the individual 
needs of daily life and by so doing, creating the conviction that, through the 
productive collaboration of its members, the folk-community serves the 
interests of the individual. 


Even if, on the basis of its mass-theory, Marxism should prove itself 
capable of taking over and developing the present economic system, this would 
not be of vital significance. 


The question as to whether the Marxist doctrine be right or wrong cannot 
be decided by any test which would show that it can administer for futurity 
what already exists to-day. It need only be asked whether it has the creative 
power to build up, according to its own principles, a civilisation which would 
be a counterpart of what already exists. 


Even if Marxism were a thousandfold capable of taking over the 
economic system as we now have it, and of maintaining it in operation under 
Marxist direction, such an achievement would prove nothing. This is because, 
on the basis of its own principles, Marxism would never be able to create 
anything which could supplant what exists to-day. 


Marxism itself has furnished the proof that it cannot do this. Not only has 
it been unable to create a cultural or economic system of its own anywhere; but 
it was not even able to develop, according to its own principles, the 
civilisation and economic system it found ready to hand. 


504 


It has had to make compromises, by way of a return to the principle of 
personality, nor can it dispense with that principle in its own organisation. 


The volkisch Weltanschauung differs fundamentally from the Marxist by 
reason of the fact that the former recognises the significance of race and 
therefore also of personal worth and has made these the pillars of its structure. 


These are the most important factors of this Weltanschauung. If the 
National Socialist Movement should fail to understand the fundamental 
importance of this essential principle, if it should content itself with patching 
up the present State from without and adopt the majority principle, 1t would 
really do nothing more than compete with Marxism on its own ground. For that 
reason it would not have the right to call itself a Weltanschauung. 


If the social programme of the movement consisted in eliminating 
personality and putting the multitude in its place, then National Socialism 
would be corrupted with the poison of Marxism, just as our bourgeois parties 
are. 


The volkisch State must ensure the welfare of its citizens by recognising 
the importance of the individual in all circumstances and by preparing the way 
for the maximum of productive efficiency in all the various branches of 
economic life, thus securing to the individual the highest possible share in the 
general output. 


Hence, the vol/kisch State must mercilessly eliminate from all the leading 
circles in the government of the country the parliamentarian principle, 
according to which decisive power through the majority vote is invested in the 
multitude. Personal responsibility must be substituted in its stead. 


Thus we arrive at the following conclusion; The best constitution and the 
best form of government is that which, as a matter of course, renders it 
possible for the best brains to reach a position of dominant importance and 
influence in the community. 


Just as in the field of economics men of outstanding ability cannot be 
selected from above, but must come to the fore by virtue of their own efforts, 
and just as there is an unceasing educative process that leads from the smallest 
shop to the largest undertaking, and just as life itself provides the necessary 
tests, so in the political field it is not possible to ‘discover’ political talent at 
short notice. 


505 


Genius of an extraordinary stamp precludes consideration of the claims 
of the average man. In its organisation, the State must be established on the 
principle of personality, starting from the smallest cell and ascending to the 
supreme man in the government of the country. 


There are no decisions made by the majority vote, but only by 
responsible persons, and the word ‘council’ is once more restored to its 
original meaning. 


Every man in a position of responsibility will have counsellors at his 
side, but the decision is made by that individual alone. 


The principle which made the former Prussian Army an admirable 
instrument of the German nation will have to become the basis of our state 
constitution, that is to say, full authority over his subordinates must be invested 
in each leader and he must be responsible to those above him. 


Even then we shall not be able to do without those corporations which at 
present we call parliaments, but they will be real councils, in the sense that 
they, will have to give advice. The responsibility can and must be borne by one 
individual, who alone will be vested with authority and the right to command. 


Parliaments as such are necessary, because they alone furnish the 
opportunity for leaders, who will subsequently be entrusted with positions of 
special responsibility, to rise gradually to authority. 


The following is an outline of the picture which the organisation will 
present. From the municipal administration up to the government of the Reich, 
the vélkisch State will not have any body of representatives which makes its 
decisions by a majority vote. 


It will have only advisory bodies to assist the chosen leader for the time 
being and he will distribute among them the various duties they are to perform. 


In certain fields they may, if necessary, have to assume full 
responsibility, such as the leader or president of each corporation possesses on 
a larger scale. 


In principle the volkisch State must forbid the custom of taking advice on 
certain political problems (economics, for instance) from parsons who are 
entirely incompetent, because they lack special training and practical 
experience in such matters. 


506 


Consequently, the State must divide its representative bodies into a 
political chamber and a corporative chamber that represents the respective 
trades and professions. 


To assure effective co-operation between those two bodies, a selected 
body, or senate will be placed ever them. No vote will be taken in the 
chambers or in the senate. They are to be organisations for work and not voting 
machines. 


The individual members will have consultative votes, but no right of 
decision will be attached thereto. The right of decision belongs exclusively to 
the president, who must be entirely responsible for the matter under discussion. 


This principle of combining absolute authority with absolute 
responsibility will gradually cause a selected group of leaders to emerge—a 
thing which is impossible in our present epoch of irresponsible 
parliamentarianism. 


The political construction of the nation will thereby be brought into 
harmony with those laws to which the nation already owes its greatness in the 
economic and cultural spheres. 


Regarding the possibility of putting these principles into practice, I 
should like to call attention to the fact that the principle of parliamentarian 
democracy, whereby decisions are enacted through the majority vote, has not 
always ruled the world. 


On the contrary, we find it prevalent only during short periods of history 
and these have always been periods of decline in nations and States. 


One must not believe, however, that such a radical change could be 
effected by measures of a purely theoretical character, operating from above 
downwards. The change I have been describing could not be limited to 
transforming the constitution of a State, but would have to include the various 
fields of legislation and civic existence as a whole. 


Such a revolution can be brought about only by means of a movement 
which is itself organised on the lines of these principles and thus bears, the 
germ of the future State in its own organism. 


Therefore, it is well for the National Socialist Movement to make itself 
completely familiar with these principles today and actually to put them into 


507 


practice within its own organisation, so that not only will it be in a position to 
serve as a guide for the future State, but will have so far completed its own 
constitution that it can be placed at the disposal of the State itself. 


508 


509 


510 
