The volkisch state, which I have tried to sketch in general outline, will 
not yet become a reality by virtue of the simple fact that we know the 
conditions indispensable for its existence. 


It does not suffice to know what aspect such a State would present. The 
problem of its foundation is far more important. 


The parties which exist at present and which draw their, profits from the 
State, as it now is, cannot be expected to bring about a radical change in the 
regime or to change their attitude on their own initiative. 


This is rendered all the more impossible because those who now have 
the direction of affairs in their hands are all of them Jews. 


The trend of development which we are now experiencing would, if 
allowed to go on unchecked, lead to the realisation of the pan-Jewish prophecy 
that the Jews will one day devour the other nations and become lords of the 
earth. 


In contrast to the millions of ‘bourgeois’ and ‘proletarian’ Germans, who 
are stumbling to their ruin, mostly through timidity, indolence and stupidity, the 
Jew pursues his way persistently and keeps his eye always fixed on his future 
goal. 


Any party that is led by him fights for no other interests than his, and his 
interests certainly have nothing in common with those of the Aryan nations. 


If we would transform our ideal picture of the vol/kisch State into a 
reality we shall have to keep independent of the forces that now control public 
life and seek for new forces that will be ready and capable of taking up the 
fight for such an ideal. 


For a fight it will have to be, since the first task will not be to build up 
the idea of the volkisch State, but rather to wipe out the Jewish State which 
now exists. 


As so often happens in the course of history, the main difficulty is not to 
establish a new order of things, but to clear the ground for its establishment. 


511 


Prejudices and egotistic interests join together in forming a common 
front against the new idea and in trying by every means to prevent its triumph, 
because it is disagreeable to them or threatens their existence. That 1s why the 
protagonist of the new idea is, unfortunately, in spite of his desire for 
constructive work, compelled to wage a destructive battle first, in order to 
abolish the existing state of affairs. 


A doctrine whose principles are radically new and of essential 
importance must adopt the sharp probe of criticism as its weapon, though this 
may prove disagreeable to the individual followers. 


It is evidence of a very superficial insight into historical developments if 
the supporters of the so-called pseudo-vélkisch movement emphasise again 
and again that they will, in no circumstances, adopt the use of negative 
criticism, but will engage only in constructive work. 


That is nothing but puerile chatter and is typical of all the rubbish talked 
by the adherents of this v6/kisch craze. It is another proof that the history of our 
own times, has made no impression on their minds. 


Marxism, too, has had its aims to pursue and converted and won over to 
the new movement simply by being shown that something new is necessary. 


On the contrary, what may easily happen is that two different situations 
will exist side by side and that a Weltanschauung is transformed into a party, 
above which level it will not be able to raise itself afterwards, for a 
Weltanschauung 1s intolerant and cannot permit another to exist side by side 
with it. 


It imperiously demands its own recognition as unique and exclusive, and 
insists upon a complete reformation of public life in all its branches, in 
accordance with its views. It can never allow the previous state of affairs to 
continue in existence alongside it. 


The same holds true of religions. Christianity was, not content with 
erecting an altar of its own. It had first to destroy the pagan altars. It was only 
by virtue of this passionate intolerance that an apodictic faith could grow up, 
and intolerance is an indispensable condition for the growth of such a faith. 


It may be objected here that in these phenomena which we find 
throughout the history of the world we have to recognise mostly a specifically 
Jewish mode of thought and that such fanaticism and intolerance are typical 


512 


symptoms of the Jewish mentality. 


This may be true a thousand times over and we may regret that it 1s so 
and note with a feeling of uneasiness that this phenomenon has hitherto been 
unknown in the history of mankind—but the hard fact remains that such is the 
situation to-day. 


It is not the business of the men who wish to liberate our German nation 
from the conditions is in which it now exists to burden their brains with 
thinking how excellent it would be if this or that had never occurred. They must 
strive to find ways and means of abolishing what actually exists. 


A philosophy of life which is inspired by a fanatical spirit of intolerance 
can only be set aside by a doctrine that is advanced in an equally ardent spirit 
and fought for with as determined a will and which is itself a new idea, pure 
and absolutely sincere. 


Each one of us today may regret the fact that the advent of Christianity 
was the first occasion on which spiritual terror was introduced into the much 
freer ancient world, but the fact cannot be denied that ever since then, the 
world has been pervaded and dominated by this kind of coercion and that 
violence is broken only by violence and terrorism by terrorism. 


Only then can a new regime be created by means of constructive work. 
Political parties are prone to make compromises, but a Weltanschauung never 
does this. 


A political party even reckons with opponents, but a Weltanschauung 
proclaims its own infallibility. 


In the beginning, political parties have nearly always the intention of 
securing exclusive and despotic domination for themselves. 


They always show a slight tendency to become Weltanschauungen, but 
the limited nature of their programme is in itself enough to rob them of that 
heroic spirit which a Weltanschauung demands. 


The spirit of conciliation, which animates their will, attracts those petty 
and chicken-hearted people who are not fit to take part in any crusade. That is 
the reason why they mostly become stuck in their miserable pettiness very 
early on the march. 


513 


They give up fighting for their ideology and, by way of what they call 
‘positive collaboration,’ they try as quickly as possible to wedge themselves 
into some tiny place at the trough of the existent regime and to stick there as 
long as possible. 


Their whole effort ends at that, and if they should get shouldered away 
from the common manger by competitors with more brutal manners, then their 
only idea is to force themselves in again, by force or chicanery, among the herd 
of all the others who have similar appetites, to get back into the front row, and 
finally—even at the expense of their most sacred convictions—to regale 
themselves anew at that beloved spot where they find their fodder. They are the 
jackals of politics. 


A Weltanschauung will never of itself willingly give ground to another. 
Therefore it can never agree to collaborate in any order of things that it 
condemns. 


On the contrary, it feels obliged to employ every available means in the 
fight against the old order and the whole world of ideas belonging to that order 
and to prepare the way for its destruction. 


These purely destructive tactics, the danger of which 1s so readily 
perceived by the enemy that he forms a united front against them for his 
common defence, and also the constructive tactics, which must be aggressive 
in order to carry the new world of ideas to success—both these phases of the 
struggle call for a body of resolute fighters. Any new Weltanschauung will be 
successful in establishing its ideas only if the most courageous and active 
elements of its epoch and its people are enrolled under its standards and 
grouped firmly together in a powerful fighting organisation. 


To achieve this purpose it is absolutely necessary to select from the 
general ideology a certain number of ideas which will appeal to such 
individuals, and which, once they are expressed in a precise and clear-cut 
form, will serve as articles of faith for a new association of men. 


While the programme of the ordinary political party is nothing but the 
recipe for achieving favourable results at the next general election, the 
programme of a Weltanschauung represents a declaration of war against an 
existing order of things, against present conditions, in short, against the 
established Weltanschauung. 


514 


It is not necessary, however, that every individual fighter for such a new 
doctrine need have a full grasp of the ultimate ideas and plans of those who are 
the leaders of the movement. 


It is only necessary that each should have a clear notion of the 
fundamental ideas and that he should thoroughly assimilated a few of the most 
fundamental principles, so that he will be convinced of the necessity of 
carrying the movement and its doctrines to success. 


The individual soldier is not initiated into the secrets of high strategical 
plans, but he is trained to submit to a rigid discipline, to be passionately 
convinced of the justice and inner might of his cause and to devote himself to it 
without reserve. 


So, too, the individual follower of a movement must be made acquainted 
with its far-reaching purpose, and realise that it is inspired by a powerful will 
and that it has a great future before it. 


Supposing that each soldier in an army were a general, if only as regards 
his training and capacity, that army would not be an efficient fighting 
instrument. 


Similarly, a political movement would not be very efficient in fighting 
for a Weltanschauung if it were made up exclusively of intellectuals. We need 
the private soldier too. Without him no discipline can be established. 


By its very nature, an organisation can exist only if leaders of high 
intellectual ability are served by a large mass of men who are emotionally 
devoted to the cause. 


To maintain discipline in a company of two hundred men who are 
equally intelligent and capable would turn out more difficult in the, long run 
than to maintain discipline in a company of one hundred and ninety less gifted 
men and ten who have had a higher education. 


The Social Democrats have profited by recognising this truth. They took 
the broad masses of our people who had just completed military service and 
learned to submit to discipline, and they subjected this mass of men to the 
discipline of the Social Democratic organisation, which was no less rigid than 
the discipline through which the young men had passed in the course of their 
military training. 


515 


The Social Democratic organisation consisted of an army divided into 
officers and men. The German worker who had completed his military service 
became the private soldier in that army, and the Jewish intelligentsia were its 
officers. 


The German trade-union functionaries may be compared to its non- 
commissioned officers. The fact, which was always looked upon with dismay 
by our middle classes, that only the so-called uneducated classes joined the 
Marxists was the very ground on which this party achieved its success. 


For while the bourgeois parties—because they consisted mostly of 
intellectuals, were only a feckless band of undisciplined individuals—the 
Marxist leaders have formed out of much less intelligent human material an 
army of party combatants who obey their Jewish masters just as blindly as they 
formerly obeyed their German officers. 


The German middle classes, who never bothered their heads about 
psychological problems, because they felt themselves superior to such matters, 
did not think it necessary to reflect on the profound significance of this fact and 
the hidden danger involved in it. 


Indeed, they believed that a political movement which draws its 
followers exclusively from intellectual circles must, for that very reason, be of 
greater importance and have better chances of success, and even a better 
chance of taking over the government of the country than a party made up of the 
ignorant masses. 


They completely failed to realise the fact that the strength of a political 
party never consists in the intelligence and independent spirit of the rank and 
file of its members, but rather in the spirit of willing obedience with which 
they follow their intellectual leaders. 


What is of decisive importance is the leadership itself. When two bodies 
of troops are arrayed in mortal combat, victory will not fall to that side in 
which every soldier has an expert knowledge of the rules of strategy, but rather 
to that side which has the best leaders and, at the same time, the best 
disciplined, most blindly obedient and best drilled troops. 


That is a fundamental fact which we must always bear in mind when we 
examine the possibility of transforming a Weltanschauung into a practical 
reality. 


516 


If we agree that in order to carry a Weltanschauung into practical effect 
it must be incorporated in a fighting movement, then the logical consequence is 
that the programme of such a movement must take account of the human 
material at its disposal. Just as the ultimate aims and fundamental principles 
must be made absolutely definite and intelligible, so the propaganda 
programme must be well drawn up and must be inspired by a keen sense of its 
psychological appeal to the minds of those without whose help the noblest 
ideals will be doomed to remain forever in the realm of visions. 


If the idea of the volkisch State, which is at present an obscure ideal, is 
one day to attain a clear and definite success, from its vague and vast mass of 
thought it will have to put forward certain definite principles which of their 
very nature and content are calculated to attract a broad mass of adherents. In 
other words, such a group of people as can guarantee that these principles will 
be fought for. That group of people is the German working-class. 


That is why the programme of the new Movement was condensed into a 
few fundamental postulates, twenty-five in all. 


They are meant first of all to give the ordinary man a rough idea of what 
the Movement is aiming at. They are, so to speak, a profession of faith which, 
on the one hand, is meant to win adherents for the Movement and, on the other, 
they are meant to unite such adherents together in a covenant to which all have 
subscribed. 


In this connection we must never lose sight of the following fact: What 
we call the programme of the Movement is absolutely right as far as its 
ultimate aims are concerned, but as regards the manner in which that 
programme is formulated certain psychological considerations had to be taken 
into account. 


Hence, in the course of time, the opinion may well arise that certain 
principles should be expressed differently and might be better formulated, but 
any attempt at a different formulation has a fatal effect in most cases, for 
something that ought to be fixed and unshakable thereby becomes the subject of 
discussion. 


AS soon as one single point is removed from the sphere of dogmatic 
certainly, the discussion will not simply result in a new and better formulation 
which will have greater consistency, but may easily lead to endless debates 
and general confusion. 


517 


In such cases, the question must always be carefully considered as to 
whether a new and more adequate formulation is to be preferred, though it may 
cause a controversy within the Movement, or whether it may not be better to 
retain the old formula which, though probably not the best, represents an 
organism enclosed in itself, solid and internally homogeneous. 


Every test shows that the second of these alternatives is preferable, for, 
since in these changes one is dealing only with external forms, such corrections 
will always appear desirable and possible, but the deciding factor is that 
people in general think superficially, and therefore the great danger is that in 
what is merely an external formulation of the programme people will see an 
essential aim of the movement. In that way the will and the combative force at 
the service of the ideal are weakened and the energies that ought to be directed 
towards the outer world are dissipated in programmatic discussions within the 
ranks of the Movement. 


For a doctrine that is actually right in its main features it is less 
dangerous to retain a formulation which may no longer be quite adequate, 
instead of trying to improve it and thereby allowing a fundamental principle of 
the Movement, which had hitherto been considered as solid as granite, to 
become the subject of a general discussion which may have unfortunate 
consequences. 


This is particularly to be avoided as long as a Movement is still fighting 
for victory, for would it be possible to inspire people with blind faith in the 
truth of a doctrine if doubt and uncertainty are encouraged by continual 
alterations in its external formulation? 


The essentials of a doctrine must never be looked for in its external 
formulas, but always in its inner meaning, and this is unchangeable. 


One could only wish that for the sake of this inner meaning a movement 
could exclude everything that tends towards disintegration and uncertainty in 
order to preserve the unified force that 1s necessary for its triumph. 


Here again the Catholic Church has a lesson to teach us. Though 
sometimes, and often quite unnecessarily, its dogmatic system is in conflict 
with the exact sciences and with scientific discoveries, it is not disposed to 
sacrifice one syllable of its teachings. 


It has rightly recognised that its powers of resistance would be 


518 


weakened by introducing greater or lesser doctrinal adaptations to cope with 
temporary scientific discoveries, which are in reality always vacillating, but 
that they gain strength from the fact that it holds fast to its fixed and established 
dogmas which alone can give to the whole system the character of a faith. 


That is the reason why it stands firmer to-day than ever before. We may 
prophesy that, as a fixed star amid fleeting phenomena, it will continue to 
attract increasing numbers of people who will be the more blindly attached to 
it the more rapid the rhythm of changing phenomena around it. 


Therefore, whoever really and seriously desires that the volkisch 
Weltanschauung should triumph must realise that this triumph can be assured 
only through a militant movement and that this movement must found its 
strength only on the granite firmness of an impregnable and well-defined 
programme. 


In regard to its formulas it must never make concessions to the spirit of 
the time, but must maintain the form that has once and for all been decided 
upon as the right one—in any case, until victory has crowned its efforts. 


Before this goal has been reached any attempt to open a discussion on 
the appropriateness of this or that point, in the programme might tend to 
disintegrate the solidarity and fighting strength of the movement, according to 
the measure in which its followers might take part in such an internal dispute. 


Some ‘improvement’ introduced to-day might be subjected to a critical 
examination to-morrow, in order to substitute for it something better the day 
after. 


Once the barrier has been broken down, the way is opened and we know 
only the beginning, but we do not know to what shoreless sea it may lead. 


This important principle had to be acknowledged in practice by the 
members of the National Socialist Movement from the outset. 


In its programme of twenty-five points the National Socialist German 
Labour Party has been furnished with a basis that must remain unshakable. 


The members of the Movement, both present and future, must never feel 
themselves called upon to undertake a critical revision of these postulates, but 
rather feel themselves obliged to put them into practice as they stand. 


519 


Otherwise, the next generation would, in its turn, and with an equal right, 
expend its energy in such purely formal work within the Party, instead of 
winning new adherents for the Movement and thus adding to its power. 


For the majority of our followers the essence of the Movement will 
consist not so much in the letter of our theses as in the meaning that we attribute 
to them. 


The new Movement owes its name to these considerations, and later on 
its programme was drawn up in conformity with them. 


They are the basis of our propaganda. In order to carry the volkisch ideal 
to victory, a popular party had to be founded, a party that did not consist of 
intellectual leaders only, but also of manual labourers. 


Any attempt to carry these theories into effect without the aid of a 
militant organisation would be doomed to failure to-day, as it has failed in the 
past and must fail in the future. 


That is why it is not only the right, but also the duty, of the Movement to 
consider itself as the champion and representative of these ideas. 


Just as the fundamental principles of the National Socialist Movement 
are based on the volkisch idea, vélkisch ideas are National Socialist. 


If National Socialism would triumph it will have to hold firm to this fact 
unreservedly, and here again it is not only its right, but also its duty, to 
emphasise most rigidly that any attempt to represent the vo/kisch idea outside 
of the National Socialist German Labour Party is futile and, in most cases, 
even fraudulent. 


If the reproach should be raised against our Movement that it has 
‘monopolised’ the vé/kisch idea, there 1s only one answer to give. Not only 
have we monopolised the vo/kisch idea but, to all practical intents and 
purposes, we have created it, for what hitherto existed under this name was not 
in the least capable of influencing the destiny of our people, since all those 
ideas lacked a political and coherent formulation. 


In most cases, they were nothing but isolated and incoherent notions 
which were more or less right. Quite frequently these were in open 
contradiction to one another and in no case was there any internal cohesion 
among them. 


520 


Even if this internal cohesion existed it would have been much too weak 
to form the basis of any movement. Only the National Socialist Movement 
proved capable of fulfilling this task. 


All kinds of associations and groups, big as well as small, now claim the 
title volkisch. This is one result of the work which National Socialism has 
done. Without this work, not one of all these parties would have thought of 
adopting the word volkisch at all. 


That expression would have meant nothing to them and especially their 
leaders would have had nothing to do with such an idea. 


Not until the work of the National Socialist German Labour Party had 
given this idea a pregnant meaning did it appear in the mouths of all kinds of 
people. 


Above all, our Party has, by the success of its propaganda, shown the 
force of the volkisch 1dea—so much so that the others, in an effort to gain 
proselytes, find themselves forced to copy our example, at least in words. 


Just as heretofore they exploited everything to serve their petty electoral 
purposes, to-day they use the word volkisch only as an external and hollow- 
sounding phrase for the purpose of counteracting the force of the impression 
which the National Socialist Party makes on the members of the other parties. 


Only the desire to maintain their existence and the fear that our 
Movement may prevail, because it is based on a Weltanschauung that is of 
universal importance, and because they feel that the exclusive character of our 
movement betokens danger for them only for these reasons do they use words 
which they repudiated eight years ago, derided seven years ago, branded as 
stupid six years ago, combated five years ago, hated four years ago, derided 
three years ago and finally, two years ago, annexed and incorporated in their 
present political vocabulary, employing them as slogans in their struggle. 


For this reason, it is necessary even now, not to cease to call attention to 
the fact that not one of those parties has the slightest idea of what the German 
nation needs. The most striking proof of this is provided by the superficial way 
in which they use the word volkisch. 


Not less dangerous are those who run about as pseudo-adherents of the 
volkisch ideal formulating fantastic schemes which are mostly based on 
nothing else than a fixed idea which, in itself, might be right. But because it 1s 


521 


an isolated notion, is of no use whatsoever for the formation of a great 
homogeneous fighting association and could by no means serve as the basis of 
its organisation. 


Those people who concoct a programme which consists partly of their 
own ideas and partly of ideas filched from others, about which they have read 
somewhere, are often more dangerous than the outspoken enemies of the 
volkisch idea. 


At best they are sterile theorists, but more frequently they are 
mischievous agitators. They believe that they can mask their intellectual vanity, 
the futility of their efforts and their lack of ability, by sporting flowing beards 
and indulging in ancient Germanic gestures. 


In the face of all these futile attempts, it is, therefore, worth while to 
recall the time when the new National Socialist Movement began its fight. 


S22 


523 


524 

