The institution that is now erroneously called the State generally 
classifies people in two groups—citizens and aliens. 


Citizens are all those who possess full civic rights, either by reason of 
their birth or by an act of naturalization. Aliens are those who enjoy the same 
rights in some other State. 


Between these two categories there are certain beings who resemble a 
sort of meteoric phenomena. They are people who have no citizenship in any 
State and consequently no civic-rights anywhere. 


In most cases, a person acquires civic rights nowadays by being born 
within the frontiers of a State. The race or nationality to which he may belong 
plays no role whatsoever. 


The child of a Negro who once lived in one of the German protectorates 
and now takes up his residence in Germany automatically becomes a ‘German 
citizen’ in the eyes of the world. 


In the same way the child of any Jew, Pole, African or Asian may 
automatically become a German citizen. 


Besides nationality that 1s acquired through the fact of having been born 
within the confines of a State, there exists another kind of nationality which can 
be acquired later. 


This process is subject to various preliminary requirements. For 
example, one condition is that, if possible, the applicant must not be a burglar 


or a pimp. 
His political attitude must be such as to give no cause for uneasiness; in 
other words, he must be a harmless simpleton in politics. 


It is required that he shall not be a burden to the State of which he wishes 
to become a citizen. In this realistic epoch of ours this last condition naturally 
only means that he must not be a financial burden. 


492 


If the affairs of the candidate are such that it appears likely he will turn 
out to be a good taxpayer, that is a very important consideration and will help 
him to obtain civic rights all the more rapidly. The question of race plays no 
part at all. 


The whole process of acquiring civic rights is not very different from 
that of being admitted to membership of an automobile club, for instance: A 
person files his application; it is examined; it is sanctioned, and one day the 
man receives a card which informs him that he has become a citizen. The 
information is given in an amusing way. An applicant who has hitherto been a 
Zulu or a Kaffir is informed, “By these presents you have now become a 
German citizen.” 


The President of the State can perform this piece of magic. What God 
Himself could not do is achieved by some Theophrastus Paracelsus of a civil 
servant. A stroke of the pen, and a Mongolian slave is forthwith turned into a 
real ‘German’. 


Not only is no question asked regarding the race to which the new citizen 
belonged; even the matter of his physical health is not inquired into. 


His flesh may be corrupt with syphilis; but he will still be welcome in 
the State as it exists to-day, as long as he is not likely to become a financial 
burden or a political menace. 


In this way, year after year, those organisms which we call States absorb 
poisonous matter which they can hardly ever overcome. 


Another point of distinction between a citizen and an alien is that the 
former is admitted to all public offices, that he may possibly have to do 
military service and that in return, he is permitted to take a passive or active 
part at public elections. 


Those are his chief privileges, for in regard to personal rights and 
personal liberty the alien enjoys the same amount of protection as the citizen, 
and frequently even more. 


Anyhow that is what happens in our present German Republic. I fully 
realise that nobody likes to hear these things, but it would be difficult to find 
anything more illogical or more insane than our contemporary laws in regard to 
State citizenship. 


493 


At present there exists one State which is making at least a feeble attempt 
to follow a sounder principle in this respect. It is not, however, in our model 
German Republic, but in the U.S.A. that efforts are being made to conform at 
least partly to the dictates of common sense. 


By refusing to allow immigrants to enter the country if they are in a bad 
state of health, and by excluding certain races from the right to become 
naturalised as citizens, they have begun to introduce principles similar to those 
on which we wish to ground the volkisch State. 


The volkisch State will classify its population in three groups, namely, 
citizens, subjects of the State, and aliens. 


The principle is that birth within the confines of the State gives only the 
status of a subject. It does not carry with it the right to fill any position under 
the State or to participate in political life, such as taking an active or passive 
part in elections. 


Another principle is that the race and nationality of every subject of the 
State will have to be proved. A subject is at any time free to cease being a 
subject and to become a citizen of that country to which he belongs in virtue of 
his nationality. 


The only difference between an alien and a subject of the State is that the 
former is a citizen of another country. 


A boy of German nationality who is a subject of the German State is 
bound to complete the period of school education which is obligatory for every 
German. 


Thereby he submits to the system of training which will make him, race- 
conscious and make him realise that he is a member of the folk-community. 


Then he has to fulfil all those requirements laid down by the State in 
regard to physical training after he has left school, and finally he enters the 
Army. 


The training in the Army is of a general kind. It must be given to each 
individual German and will render him competent to fulfil the physical and 
mental requirements of military service. 


The rights of citizenship will be conferred on every young man, whose 


494 


health and character have been certified as good, after having completed his 
period of military service. 


This act of admission to the dignity of citizenship will be a solemn 
ceremony, and the diploma conferring the rights of citizenship will be 
preserved by the young man as a most precious testimonial throughout his 
whole life. 


It entitles him to exercise all the rights of a citizen and to enjoy all the 
privileges attached thereto, for the State must draw a sharp line of distinction 
between those who, as members of the nation, are the foundation and the 
support of its existence and greatness, and those who are domiciled in the State 
simply because they earn their livelihood there. 


On the occasion of receiving a diploma of citizenship the new citizen 
must take a solemn oath of loyalty to the national community and the State. 


This diploma must be a bond which unites all the various classes and 
sections of the nation. It must be regarded as a greater honour to be a citizen of 
this Reich, even as a street-sweeper, than to be the king of a foreign State. 


The citizen has privileges which are not accorded to the alien. He is the 
master in the Reich, but this high honour brings with it obligations. 


Those who are without personal honour or character, who are common 
criminals, or traitors to the Fatherland, can at any time be deprived of the 
rights of citizenship. Thereby they revert to the status of mere subjects of the 
State. 


The German girl is a subject of the State, but becomes a citizen when she 
marries. At the same time those women who earn their livelihood 
independently have the right to acquire citizenship, if they are German 
subjects. 


495 


496 


497 
