The strength of the old state rested on three pillars: the monarchical form 
of government, the civil service, and the Army. 


The Revolution of 1918 abolished the form of government, disbanded the 
Army and abandoned the civil service to the corruption of party politics. 


Thus the essential supports of the so-called authority of the State were 
shattered. This authority nearly always depends on three elements, which are 
the essential foundations of all authority. 


Popular support is the first element which is necessary for the creation of 
authority, but an authority resting on that foundation alone 1s still quite frail, 
uncertain and vacillating. 


Hence, everyone who finds himself vested with an authority that is based 
only on popular support must take measures to improve and consolidate the 
foundations of that authority by the acquisition of power. 


Accordingly, we must look upon power, that is to say the capacity to use 
force, as the second foundation on which all authority is based. This foundation 
is more stable and secure, but not always stronger, than the first. 


If popular support and power are united and can endure for a certain 
time, then an authority may evolve which is based on a still stronger 
foundation, namely, the authority of tradition. 


Finally, if popular support, power, and tradition are united together, then 
the authority based on them may be looked upon as invincible. 


In Germany the Revolution abolished this last foundation. There was no 
longer even a traditional authority. With the collapse of the old Reich, the 
abolition of the monarchical form of government, the destruction of all the old 
insignia of greatness and the imperial symbols, tradition was shattered at a 
blow. 


The result was that the authority of the State was shaken to its 
foundations. 


585 


The second pillar of state authority, namely power, also ceased to exist. 
In order to carry through the Revolution it was necessary to disband that body 
which had hitherto incorporated the organised force and power of the State, 
namely, the Army. Indeed some decimated fragments of the Army itself had to 
be employed as fighting elements in the Revolution. 


The armies at the front were not subjected in the same measure to this 
process of disruption, but as they gradually left farther behind them the fields 
of glory on which they had fought heroically for four and a half years they were 
attacked by the corrosive acid that was destroying the discipline of the home 
front. When they arrived at the demobilizing centres, they fell into that state of 
confusion which was styled ‘voluntary obedience,’ at the time of the Soldiers’ 
Councils. 


Of course it was out of the question to think of founding any kind of 
authority on this crowd of mutineering soldiers, who looked upon military 
service as a job of eight hours per day. 


Therefore, the second element, that which guarantees the stability of 
authority, was also abolished and the Revolution had only the original element, 
popular support, on which to build up its authority, but this basis was 
extraordinarily insecure. 


With one mighty blow, the Revolution had shattered the old state edifice, 
but only because the normal equilibrium within the social structure of the 
nation had already been destroyed by the war. 


Every national body is made up of three main classes. At one extreme 
we have the best of the people, taking the word ‘best’ as indicating those who 
are highly endowed with the civic virtues and are noted for their courage and 
their readiness to sacrifice their private interests. 


At the other extreme are the worst dregs of humanity, in whom vice and 
egotistic interests prevail. Between these two extremes stands the third class, 
which is made up of the broad middle stratum, which does not incorporate 
either radiant heroism or vulgar vice. 


Those eras which mark the rise of a State are characterized and indeed 
made possible only by the fact that they occur under the exclusive leadership of 
that section belonging to the best extreme of the population. 


Times of normal and steady development, or of stable conditions, owe 


586 


their existence and outwardly visible characteristics to the preponderating 
influence of the middle stratum. 


In this stage the two extreme classes counterbalance each other, or in 
other words; they cancel each other. Times of national collapse are determined 
by the preponderating influence of the worst elements. 


It must be noted here, however, that the broad masses, which constitute 
what I have called the middle section, come forward and make their influence 
felt only when the two extreme sections are engaged in mutual strife, in case 
one of the extreme sections comes out victorious, the middle section will 
readily submit to its domination. 


If the best dominate, the broad masses will follow it. Should the worst 
extreme prove triumphant, then the middle section will at least offer no 
opposition to it, for the masses that constitute the middle stratum never fight 
their own battles. The bloodshed which continued for four and a half years 
during the War destroyed the inner equilibrium between these three sections in 
so far as it can be said (with all due respect for the sacrifices made by the 
middle section) that it nearly led to the best extreme being bled white, because 
the total amount of irreplaceable and heroic German lives lost during these 
four and a half years was really tremendous. 


Just think of the hundreds of thousands of instances when there was a call 
for volunteers for the front, volunteers for patrol duty, volunteer dispatch 
carriers, volunteers to go out and rig up a telephone, volunteers for bridge 
building, volunteers for the submarines, volunteers for the air service, 
volunteers for the storm battalions, and so on. 


During four and a half years, and on thousands of occasions, there was 
always the cry for volunteers and again for volunteers, and the result was 
always the same. 


Beardless young fellows or fully developed men, all filled with an 
ardent love for their country; urged on by their own courageous spirit or by a 
lofty sense of their duty—it was always such men who answered the call for 
volunteers. 


There were tens of thousands, indeed hundreds of thousands, of such 
cases, so that that kind of human material steadily grew scarcer and scarcer. 


Those who were not killed were either maimed on the field of battle or 


587 


disappeared gradually owing to the steady decrease in the number of 
SUrVIVOTS. 


Let us remember, above all, that in 1914 whole armies were composed 
of volunteers who, owing to a criminal lack of conscience on the part of our 
feckless parliamentarians, had not received a regulation peace-time training 
and were consequently defenceless cannon-fodder at the mercy of the enemy. 


The four hundred thousand who fell or were permanently maimed on the 
battlefields of Flanders were irreplaceable. Their loss was something far more 
than a numerical loss. 


With their death the scales, being too lightly weighted at the best end, 
tipped rapidly upwards and the vulgar, infamous and cowardly elements, in 
short, those who constituted the worst extreme of our population, weighed 
heavier in the balance than previously. 


In addition to this, for four and a half years, our best human material was 
being thinned to an exceptional degree on the battlefields, while the worst 
extreme surpassed itself in the art of self-preservation. 


For each heroic volunteer who made the supreme sacrifice and ascended 
the steps of Valhalla, there was a shirker who cunningly dodged death on the 
plea of being engaged in business that was of more or less national importance 
at home. 


Thus, the state of affairs at the end of the war was as follows: The great 
middle stratum of the nation had fulfilled its duty and paid its toll of blood. 


One extreme of the population, which was constituted of the best 
elements, had, with exemplary heroism, sacrificed itself almost to a man. 


The other extreme, which was, constituted of the worst elements of the 
population, had preserved itself almost intact, through taking advantage of 
absurd laws and also because the authorities failed to enforce certain articles 
of the military code. 


This carefully preserved scum of our nation then engineered the 
Revolution, and the reason why it could do so was that the extreme section 
composed of the best elements was no longer there to oppose it. It no longer 
existed. 


588 


Hence the German Revolution, from the very beginning, depended on 
only one section of the population. This act of Cain was not committed by the 
German people as such, but by an obscure rabble of deserters, hooligans, etc. 
The man at the front gladly welcomed the end of the strife in which so much 
blood had been shed. He was happy to be able to return home and be with his 
wife and children once again, but he had no moral connection with the 
Revolution. He did not like it, nor did he like those who had provoked and 
organised it. 


During the four and a half years of that utter struggle at the front he had 
come to forget the party hyenas at home and all their wrangling had become 
alien to him. 


The Revolution was really popular only with a small section of the 
German people, namely, that Class and their accomplices who had selected the 
rucksack as the hall-mark of all honorary citizens in this new State. 


They did not like the Revolution for its own sake, as many people still 
erroneously believe, but for the consequences which followed in its train. 


It was, however, very difficult to establish any abiding authority on the 
popular support given to these Marxist freebooters, and yet the young Republic 
stood in need of authority at any cost, unless it was prepared to be suddenly 
overthrown after a short period of chaos by an avenging force assembled from 
those last elements that still remained of the best extreme of the population. 


The danger which those who were responsible for the Revolution feared 
most at that time was that, in the turmoil of the confusion which they 
themselves had created, the ground would suddenly give under their feet, that 
they might be abruptly seized and transported to another milieu by an iron 
hand, such as has often made itself felt at such junctures in the history of 
nations. 


The Republic had to be consolidated at all costs. Hence, it was forced 
almost immediately after its foundation to erect another pillar beside that 
unstable pillar of its wavering popularity. Its promoters found that power must 
be organised once again in order to procure a firmer foundation for their 
authority. 


When those who had been the matadors of the Revolution in December 
1918, and January and February 1919, felt the ground trembling beneath their 


589 


feet they looked around them for men who would be prepared to support, by 
means of military force, the insecure position which their popularity with the 
public afforded them. 


The ‘anti-militarist? Republic had need of soldiers. Since, however, the 
first and only pillar on which the authority of the State rested, namely, its 
popularity, was grounded only on a conglomeration of rowdies, thieves, 
burglars, deserters, shirkers, etc., namely, on that section of the nation which 
we have called the evil extreme, it was useless to look to it to provide men 
who would be willing to sacrifice their lives for the sake of a new ideal. 


The section which had nourished the revolutionary idea and carried out 
the Revolution was neither able nor willing to provide the men to protect it, for 
that section had no wish whatsoever to organise a republican State, but to 
disorganise what already existed in order the better to satisfy its own instincts. 


Their watchword was not the organisation and construction of the 
German Republic, but rather the pillaging of it. 


Hence, the cry for help, sent out by the public representatives, who were 
beset by a thousand anxieties, did not find any response among this class of 
people, but rather provoked a feeling of bitterness and repudiation. 


They looked upon this step as a breach of faith and trust, and in the 
building up of an authority which was no longer based on popular support, but 
also on force, they saw the beginning of a struggle against what was, for these 
elements, an essential factor of the Revolution, namely, the right to plunder and 
absolute domination by a horde of thieves and robbers in short, the worst 
rabble who had broken out of the convict prisons, leaving their chains behind. 


The representatives of the people might cry out as much as they liked, but 
they could get no help from that rabble and only the answering cry, ‘Traitors!’ 
revealed the attitude of the very people on whose support the popularity of the 
regime was founded. 


Then for the first time large numbers of young Germans were ready to 
don their military uniform once again in the service, as they believed, of ‘law 
and order,’ shouldering their rifles and donning their steel helmets, to defend 
the wreckers of the Fatherland. 


Volunteer corps were assembled and, although hating the Revolution, 
they set to work to defend and to establish it firmly. In doing this they acted in 


590 


perfect good faith. 


The real organiser of the Revolution and the actual wire-puller behind it, 
the international Jew, had sized up the situation correctly. 


The German people were not yet ripe to be drawn into the bloody 
swamp of Bolshevism, as the Russian people had been drawn. 


That was because there was a closer racial unity between the intellectual 
classes in Germany and the manual workers, and also because, as was also the 
case in the other States in Western Europe, broadly speaking, most classes of 
the community had their quota of cultured persons, whereas this was not the 
case in Russia. 


In that country the intellectual classes were, for the most part, not of 
Russian nationality, or at least they did not have the racial characteristics of the 
Slav. 


The thin upper layer of intellectuals which then existed in Russia could 
be abolished at any time, because there was no intermediate stratum connecting 
it organically with the great mass of the people. There the mental and moral 
level of the great mass of the people was extremely low. 


In Russia, the moment the agitators were successful in inciting the broad 
masses of the people, who could neither read nor write, against the upper layer 
of intellectuals who were not in contact with the masses or permanently linked 
with them in any way, the fate of Russia was decided, the success of the 
Revolution assured. 


Thereupon the analphabetic Russian became the slave of his Jewish 
dictators who, on their side, were shrewd enough to name their dictatorship 
‘the dictatorship of the people.’ 


In the case of Germany an additional factor must be taken into account. 
Here the Revolution could be carried into effect only if the Army could first be 
gradually dismembered. 


The real author of the Revolution and of the process of disintegration in 
the Army was not the soldier who had fought at the front, but canaille who 
more or less shunned the light and were either quartered in the home garrisons 
or were officiating as ‘indispensables’ somewhere in the business world at 
home. 


591 


This canaille was reinforced by ten thousand deserters who, without 
running any particular risk, could turn their backs on the fighting front. At all 
times the real coward fears nothing so much as death, but at the front he had 
death before his eyes every day in a thousand different shapes. 


There has always been one possible way, and one only, of making weak 
or wavering men, or even downright cowards, face their duty steadfastly and 
that 1s that the deserter be given to understand that his desertion will bring 
upon him just the very thing from which he is fleeing. 


At the front a man may die, but the deserter must die. Only this draconian 
threat against every attempt to desert the flag can have an intimidating effect, 
not merely on the individual, but also on the mass. Therein lay the meaning and 
purpose of the military penal code. 


It was a magnificent delusion, to believe that the great struggle for the 
life of a nation could be carried through if it were based solely on voluntary 
fidelity, arising from and sustained by the knowledge that such a struggle was 
necessary. 


The voluntary fulfilment of one’s duty is a motive that determines the 
actions of only the best men, but not of the average type of man. 


Hence, special laws are necessary, just as, for instance, the law against 
stealing, which was not made for men who are honest on principle, but for the 
weak and unstable elements. 


Such laws are meant to hinder the evil-doer by their deterrent effect and 
thus prevent a state of affairs from arising in which the honest man 1s 
considered stupid, and which would end in the belief that it is better to have a 
share in the robbery, than to stand by with empty hands or allow oneself to be 
robbed. 


It was a mistake to believe that in a struggle which, according to all 
human reckoning, might last for several years it would be possible to dispense 
with those expedients which the experience of hundreds and even of thousands 
of years had proved to be effective in making weak and unstable men face and 
fulfil their duty in difficult times and at moments of great nervous stress. 


For the voluntary war-hero it is, of course, not necessary to have the 
death-penalty in the military code, but it is necessary for the cowardly egotists 
who value their own lives above the existence of the community in the hour of 


592 


national need. 


Such weak and characterless people can be deterred from surrendering 
to their cowardice only by the application of the heaviest penalties. 


When men have to struggle with death every day and remain for weeks in 
trenches of mire, often very badly supplied with food, the man who is unsure of 
himself and begins to waver cannot be made to stick to his post by threats of 
imprisonment or even penal servitude. 


Only by a ruthless enforcement of the death-penalty can this be effected, 
for experience shows that at such a time the weakling considers prison a 
thousand times preferable to the battlefield. In prison his precious life is not in 
danger. 


The abolition of the death-penalty during the War, that is to say, the fact 
that the military penal code was, to all practical purposes, in abeyance, was a 
mistake for which we had to pay dearly. 


An army of deserters poured into the stations at the rear or returned 
home, especially in 1918, and there began to form that huge criminal 
organisation with which we were suddenly faced, after November 7th, 1918, 
and which engineered the Revolution. 


The front had nothing to do with all this. Naturally, the soldiers at the 
front were yearning for peace, but it was precisely that fact which represented 
a special danger for the Revolution, for when the German soldiers began to 
draw near home, after the Armistice, the revolutionaries, in trepidation, asked 
again and again, ‘What will the troops from the front do? Will the men in field- 
grey stand for it?’ 


During those weeks the Revolution was forced to give itself at least an 
external appearance of moderation, if it were not to run the risk of being 
speedily wrecked by a few German divisions. 


For at that time, had the commander of one single division made up his 
mind to rally the men of his command, who had always remained faithful to 
him, to participate in an onslaught, to tear down the red flag and put the 
‘councils’ against the wall, or, if there was any resistance, to break in with 
trench-mortars and hand-grenades, that division would have grown into an 
army of sixty divisions in less than four weeks. 


593 


The Jewish wire-pullers were terrified by the prospect more than by 
anything else, and to forestall this particular danger they found it necessary to 
give the Revolution a certain aspect of moderation. 


They dared not allow it to degenerate into Bolshevism, but, conditions 
being what they were, had to produce a semblance of ‘law and order’—hence 
many important concessions, the appeal to the old civil service and to the 
leaders of the old Army. 


They would be needed, at least for a certain time, and only when they 
had served their turn could they be dismissed with impunity and the Republic 
taken entirely cut of the hands of the old servants of the State and delivered 
into the clutches of the revolutionaries. 


They thought that this was the only means of duping the old generals and 
civil servants and of disarming beforehand any possible opposition through the 
apparently harmless and mild character of the new regime. Experience has 
shown to what extent the plot succeeded. 


The Revolution, however, was not made by the peaceful and orderly 
elements of the nation but rather by rioters, thieves and robbers, and the way in 
which the Revolution was developing did not accord with the intentions of 
these latter elements. 


Still, on tactical grounds, it was not possible to explain to them the 
reasons for the course things were taking and make that course acceptable. 


As Social Democracy gradually gained power, it lost more and more the 
character of a crude revolutionary party. Of course in their inner hearts the 
Social Democrats wanted a revolution and their leaders had no other end in 
view. 


The final result, however, was only a revolutionary programme and a 
body of men no longer capable of putting it into execution. 


A revolution cannot be carried through by a party often million members. 
In such a movement there is no longer a climax of activity, but merely the broad 
masses of the middle stratum, that is to say, inertia. 


Recognising all this, even during the War, the Jews brought about the 
famous split in the Social Democratic Party. While the Social Democratic 
Party, conforming to the inertia of its mass following, hung like a leaden weight 


594 


on the neck of the national defence, the actively radical elements were 
extracted from it and formed into a particularly efficient force for purposes of 
attack. 


The Independent Party and the Spartacist League were the storm- 
battalions of revolutionary Marxism. The objective assigned to them was to 
create a fait accompli, on the basis of which the masses of the Social 
Democratic Party could take their stand, having been prepared for this event 
long beforehand. 


The spineless bourgeoisie had been estimated at its just value by the 
Marxists and treated en canaille. Nobody bothered about it, knowing well that 
in their canine servility the representatives of an old and worn-out generation 
would not be able to offer any serious resistance. 


When the Revolution had succeeded and its engineers believed that the 
main pillars of the old State had been broken down, the Army returning from 
the front began to appear in the light of a sinister sphinx and thus made it 
necessary to slow down the natural course of the Revolution. 


The main body of the Social Democratic horde occupied the conquered 
positions, and the Independent and Spartacist storm-battalions were side- 
tracked. This was not, however, possible without a struggle. 


Not only were the active assault formations that had started the 
Revolution dissatisfied and, feeling that they had been betrayed, eager to 
continue the fight on their own account, but their unchecked racketeering was 
even approved by the wire-pullers of the Revolution, for the Revolution itself 
had scarcely been accomplished when it appeared to be divided into two 


camps. 


In the one camp were the elements of law and order; in the other, those of 
blood and terrorism. Was it not perfectly natural that our bourgeoisie should 
take up its stand with flying colours in the camp of law and order? 


For once these pitiable, political organisations found it possible to act, 
inasmuch as, although not admitting it, they had gained a first foothold and thus 
to a certain extent they found themselves in coalition with that power which 
they hated but feared. 


The German political bourgeoisie achieved the high honour of being able 
to associate itself with the accursed Marxist leaders for the purpose of 


595 


combating Bolshevism. 


Thus as early as December 1918 and January 1919 the situation was as 
follows: A minority consisting of the worst elements had engineered the 
Revolution, and behind this minority all the Marxist parties immediately fell 
into step. 


The Revolution itself had an outward appearance of moderation, which 
aroused the enmity of the fanatical extremists. These began to resort to the use 
of hand-grenades and machine-guns, occupying public buildings, and thus 
threatening to destroy the moderate trend of the Revolution. 


To prevent this terrorism from developing further a truce was concluded 
between the representatives of the new regime and the adherents of the old 
order, for the purpose of waging a common fight against the extremists. 


The result was that the enemies of the Republic ceased to oppose the 
Republic as such and helped to subjugate those who were also enemies of the 
Republic, though for quite different reasons, but a further consequence was that 
all danger of the adherents of the old State putting up a fight against the new 
was now definitely averted. This fact must always be borne in mind. 


Only by remembering it, can we understand how it was possible that a 
nation in which nine-tenths of the people had not joined in a revolution, while 
seven-tenths repudiated it and six-tenths detested it, allowed the Revolution to 
be imposed upon it by the remaining one-tenth of the population. 


Gradually the barricade heroes in the Spartacist camp petered out, and 
so did the nationalist patriots and idealists on the other side. As these two 
groups steadily dwindled, the masses of the middle stratum triumphed, as they 
always will. 


The bourgeoisie and the Marxists met together on the basis of a fait 
accompli and the Republic began to be consolidated. At first, however, that 
did not prevent the bourgeois parties from continuing to propound their 
monarchist ideas for some time, especially at the elections, whereby they 
endeavoured to conjure up the spirit of the dead past to encourage and win 
over once more their own feeble-hearted followers. 


It was not an honest proceeding. In their hearts they had broken with the 
monarchy long ago; but the foulness of the new regime had begun to extend its 
corruptive action and make itself felt in the camp of the bourgeois parties. 


596 


The common bourgeois politician now felt better in the slime of 
republican corruption than in the severe austerity of the defunct State, which 
still lived in his memory. 


As I have already pointed out, after the destruction of the old Army the 
revolutionary leaders were forced to strengthen the authority of the State by 
creating a new factor of power. 


In the conditions that existed they could do this only by winning over to 
their side the adherents of a Weltanschauung which was diametrically 
opposed to their own. 


From those elements alone was it possible slowly to create a new Army, 
limited numerically by the peace treaties, whose spirit had to undergo a 
transformation, before it could become an instrument of the new regime. If, 
setting aside the very real defects of the old State, which undoubtedly 
constituted a contributory factor, we ask ourselves how it was possible for the 
revolutionary action to succeed, we arrive at the following conclusions: 


Firstly, it was due to the petrifaction of our sense of duty and obedience. 


Secondly, it was due also to the passive timidity of the parties who were 
supposed to uphold the State. 


Moreover, it should be emphasised that the process of petrifaction of our 
sense of duty and obedience was fundamentally due to our wholly non-national 
and purely State education which resulted in a confusion of the conceptions 
‘means’ and ‘ends.’ 


Consciousness of duty, fulfilment of duty and obedience, are not ends in 
themselves any more than the State is an end in itself, but they all ought to be 
employed as means to facilitate and assure the existence of a community of 
people who are physically and mentally akin. 


At a moment when a nation is manifestly collapsing and when all 
outward signs show that it is on the point of becoming the victim of ruthless 
oppression, thanks to the conduct of a few miscreants, to obey these people and 
fulfil one’s appointed task is merely doctrinaire formalism, and indeed pure 
folly. 


On the other hand, refusal to obey and to ‘fulfil one’s appointed task’ in 
such a case might save the nation from collapse. 


597 


According to our current bourgeois idea of the State, a divisional general 
who received from his superior the order not to shoot fulfilled his duty and 
therefore acted rightly in not shooting, because, to the bourgeois mind blind 
obedience is more valuable than the life of a nation. 


But, according to the National Socialist concept it is not a sense of 
obedience to weak superiors that should prevail at such moments. In such an 
hour the duty of assuming personal responsibility towards the whole nation 
arises. 


The Revolution succeeded because that concept had ceased to be a vital 
force with our people, or rather with our governments, and lead given place to 
something that was merely formal and doctrinaire. 


As regards the second point, it may be said that the real reason for the 
cowardly attitude of the parties which supported the former State was that the 
most active and upright section of our people had been killed during the War. 


Apart from that, the bourgeois parties, which may be considered as the 
only political formations that stood by the old State, were convinced that they 
ought to defend their principles only by intellectual ways and means, since the 
use of physical force was permitted only to the State. That outlook was a sign 
of the weakness and decadence which had been gradually developing, and it 
was also senseless at a period when there was a political adversary in the 
field who had long ago abandoned that standpoint and had instead openly 
declared that he meant to attain his political ends by force whenever possible. 


When Marxism appeared in the world of bourgeois democracy, as a 
consequence of that democracy itself, the appeal sent out by the bourgeois 
democracy to fight Marxism with intellectual weapons was a piece of folly for 
which terrible expiation had to be made later on. Marxism always professed 
the doctrine that the choice of weapons was a matter which had to be decided 
from the standpoint of expediency and that success justified the choice of the 
weapon. 


This idea was proved correct during the days from November 7th to 
11th, 1918. At that time the Marxists did not bother themselves in the least 
about parliament or democracy, but gave the death-blow to both by turning 
loose their horde of criminals to shoot and raise hell. 


It was, therefore, only natural that the long-winded bourgeois 


598 


organisations were forthwith rendered defenceless. 


When the Revolution was over, the bourgeois parties changed the name 
of their firm and suddenly reappeared, the heroic leaders emerging from the 
dark cellars or more airy storehouses where they had sought refuge. 


But, just as happens in the case of all representatives of antiquated 
institutions, they had not forgotten their errors or learned anything new. 


Their political programme was grounded in the past, even though they 
themselves had become reconciled to the new regime. 


Their aim was to secure, if possible, a share in the new institution, and 
so they continued to use words as their sole weapon. 


Therefore, after the Revolution the bourgeois parties also capitulated to 
the mob in a miserable fashion. 


When the Law for the Protection of the Republic was introduced the 
majority was not at first in favour of it, but, confronted with two hundred 
thousand Marxists demonstrating in the streets, tine bourgeois ‘statesmen’ were 
so terror stricken that they voted for the law against their better judgment, for 
the edifying reason that they feared they might otherwise be beaten up by the 
enraged masses on leaving the Reichstag—something which unfortunately did 
not occur upon the law being passed. 


Thus, the new State developed along its own lines, as if there had been 
no national opposition at all. 


The only organisations which might at that time have had the strength and 
courage to face Marxism and its incited masses were, first of all, the Freikorps 
and subsequently the organisations for self-defence, the civic guards, and 
finally, the ex-servicemen’s association. For the following reasons the 
existence of these bodies did not appreciably change the course of German 
history. Just as the so-called national parties were unable to take any steps 
since they lacked an efficient force to deal with the mob, the defence leagues 
were likewise unable to exert any influence because they had no political ideal 
and especially because they had no definite political aim in view. 


The success which Marxism had scored was due to perfect co-operation 
between political determination and ruthless force. 


599 


What prevented nationalist Germany from taking a hand in shaping 
developments was the lack of determined co-operation between brute force 
and inspired political aims. 


Whatever may have been the aspirations of the ‘national’ parties, they 
had no force whatsoever to fight for these aspiration least of all in the streets. 


The power lay in the hands of the defence leagues. They were masters of 
the street and of the State, but they lacked political ideals and aims on behalf of 
which their forces could have been mobilised in the interests of the German 
nation. 


In both cases, the cunning Jew was able by his astute powers of 
persuasion, to make this unfortunate state of affairs permanent or at least to 
aggravate it. 


The Jew succeeded brilliantly in using his press for the purpose of 
spreading abroad the idea that the defence leagues were of a ‘non-political 
character,’ just as in politics he was always astute enough to praise the ‘purely 
intellectual’ character of the struggle and demand that it must always be kept on 
that plane. 


Millions of German imbeciles then repeated this folly, without having the 
slightest suspicion that by so doing, they were, to all practical purposes, 
disarming themselves and delivering themselves defenceless into the hands of 
the Jew. 


There is a natural explanation of this also. The lack of a great ideal 
capable of re-moulding conditions has always meant a limitation of fighting 
power. 


The conviction of the right to employ even the most brutal weapons is 
always associated with an ardent faith in the necessity for the triumph of a new 
and revolutionary order of things on this earth. 


A movement which does not fight for such high aims and ideals will 
never have recourse to extreme means. The appearance of a new and great 
ideal was the secret of the success of the French Revolution. 


The Russian Revolution owes its triumph to an ideal, and it was only the 
ideal that enabled Fascism to bestow on a whole nation the blessing of a 
complete reformation. 


600 


Bourgeois parties are not capable of such an achievement, and it was not 
the bourgeois parties alone whose political aim was a restoration of the past. 


This was also the aim of the defence leagues, in so far as they concerned 
themselves with political aims at all. The spirit of the old war legions and 
Kyffhauser traditions lived on in them and thereby helped to blunt, from the 
political point of view, these, the sharpest weapons which nationalist Germany 
then possessed and to, allow them to degenerate to the level of slaves of the 
Republic. 


The fact that these leagues were inspired by the best of intentions in so 
doing, and certainly acted in good faith, does not alter in the slightest degree 
the foolishness of the course they adopted. 


In the consolidated Reichswehr, Marxism gradually acquired the support 
of force, which it needed for the exercise of its authority. 


As a logical consequence it proceeded to abolish the defence leagues, 
which it considered dangerous, declaring that they were now no longer 
necessary. Some particularly bold leaders who were regarded with suspicion 
were tried and sent to prison, but even so, Fate dealt with them as they 
deserved. 


With the founding of the National Socialist German Labour Party there 
came into being for the first time a movement whose aim, unlike that of the 
bourgeois parties, was not mechanically to restore the past, but to set up in 
place of the absurd State machinery of the present day an organic volkisch 
State. 


From the outset the new Movement took its stand on the principle that its 
ideas had to be propagated by intellectual means but that, when necessary, 
force would be employed in support of its propaganda. 


In accordance with their conviction of the paramount importance of the 
new doctrine, the leaders of the new Movement naturally believe that no 
sacrifice can be considered too great when it is a question of carrying out the 
purpose of the Movement. 


I have emphasised that in certain circumstances a movement which is 
meant to win the hearts of the people must be ready to defend itself with its 
own forces against terrorist attempts on the part of its adversaries. 


601 


It has invariably happened in the history of the world that formal State 
authority has failed to break a reign of terror which was inspired by a 
Weltanschauung. It can only be overcome by a new and different 
Weltanschauung whose representatives are quite as bold and determined. 


Recognition of this fact has always been very unpleasant for the 
bureaucrats who are the protectors of the State, but the fact remains 
nevertheless. 


The rulers of the State can guarantee law and order only if the 
constitution coincides absolutely with the prevailing Weltanschauung so that 
disturbing elements merely assume the character of isolated criminals, instead 
of being considered as the champions of an ideal which is diametrically 
opposed to the State ideology. 


In the latter case the State may employ the most violent measures for 
centuries against the terrorism that threatens it; but in the end all these 
measures will prove futile, and the State will have to succumb. The German 
State was systematically attacked by Marxism. In a struggle that went on for 
seventy years the State was not able to prevent the triumph of the Marxist idea. 


Even though the sentences to penal servitude and imprisonment amounted 
in all to thousands of years, and even though the most sanguinary measures 
were, in innumerable instances, adopted against the champions of the Marxist 
Weltanschauung, which threatened its safety, in the end the State was forced to 
capitulate almost completely. 


The ordinary bourgeois political leaders will deny all this, but in vain. 
The State which capitulated unconditionally to Marxism on November 9th, 
1918, will not suddenly arise again tomorrow as the conqueror of Marxism— 
far from it! 


Bourgeois simpletons sitting on office stools in the various ministries 
babble about the necessity of not governing against the wishes of the workers 
and by the word ‘workers’ they mean the Marxists. 


By identifying the German worker with Marxism not only are they guilty 
of a vile distortion of the truth, but they are attempting to conceal the fact of 
their own collapse before the Marxist idea and the Marxist organisation. 


In view of the complete subordination of the present State to Marxism, 
the National Socialist Movement feels all the more bound, not only to prepare 


602 


the way for the triumph of its ideal by appealing to the reason and 
understanding of the public, but also to take upon itself the responsibility of 
organising its own defence against the terrorism of the International, which 1s 
intoxicated with its own victory. 


I have already described how the practical experience gained by our 
young Movement led us slowly to organise a system of defence at our 
meetings. 


This gradually assumed the character of a military body specially trained 
for the maintenance of order and tended to develop into a service having its 
properly organised cadres. 


This new formation might resemble the defence leagues externally, but in 
reality there were no grounds of comparison between the one and the other. 


As I have already said, the German defence leagues had no definite 
political ideas of their own. They were really only associations formed for 
purposes of self-defence, their training and organisation being more or less 
efficient so that they were an illegal complement or auxiliary to the legal 
forces of the State. 


Their Freikorps character arose only from the manner of their 
organisation and the situation in which the State found itself at that time, but 
they certainly could not claim to be Freikorps on the grounds that they were 
associations formed voluntarily and privately for the purpose of fighting for 
their own independent political convictions. 


Such they were not, despite the fact that some of their leaders and some 
associations as such were definitely opposed to the Republic, for before we 
can speak of political convictions in the higher sense, we must be something 
more than merely convinced that the existing regime is defective. 


Political convictions in the higher sense mean that a man has a clear 
conception and profound understanding of the form of a new regime and feels 
that the establishment of this regime is an absolute necessity and one which he 
regards as the aim of his life’s work. 


The body of men organised for the preservation of order, which was then 
formed under the National Socialist Movement, was fundamentally different 
from all the other defence associations. 


603 


This was by reason of the fact that our formations were not meant in any 
way to defend the state of things created by the Revolution, but rather that they 
were meant exclusively to support our struggle for the creation of a new 
Germany. 


In the beginning this body was merely a guard to maintain order at our 
meetings. Its first task was limited to making it possible for us to hold our 
meetings, which our opponents would otherwise have made completely 
unfeasible. 


These men were at that time trained to attack in blind obedience to 
orders but not, as was then pretended in stupid German patriotic circles, to 
revere the baton as the highest ideal, because they were aware that the highest 
ideals can be brought to naught if their champion 1s hit over the head witha 
club, since it has happened not infrequently in the course of history that great 
men have perished under the blows of the most insignificant helots. 


Our body-guards did not look upon violence as an end in itself, but they 
protected the protagonists of ideal aims and purposes against hostile coercion 
by means of violence. 


They also understood that there was no obligation to undertake the 
defence of a State which did not guarantee the defence of the nation, but that, 
on the contrary, they had to defend the nation against those who were 
threatening to destroy nation and State. 


After the fight which took place at the meeting in the Miinchener 
Hofbrauhaus, where the small number of our guards who were present won 
everlasting fame for themselves by the heroic manner in which they stormed 
their adversaries, these guards were called the Storm Detachment. 


As the name itself indicates, they represent only a detachment of the 
Movement. They form one constituent element of it, as do the press, the 
propaganda, scientific institutes or other sections of the Party. 


We learned how necessary was the formation of such a body, not only 
from our experience on the occasion of that memorable meeting, but also when 
we sought gradually to carry the Movement beyond Munich and extend it to the 
other parts of Germany. Once we had begun to appear as a danger to Marxism, 
the Marxists lost no opportunity of trying to quash beforehand all preparations 
for the holding of National Socialist meetings. 


604 


When they did not succeed in this they tried to break up the meeting 
itself. It goes without saying that all, the Marxist organisations, no matter of 
what grade, blindly supported every move and action of this nature taken by 
their representatives. 


What can be said for the bourgeois parties which, when they had been 
reduced to silence by these same Marxists and in many places did not dare to 
let their speakers appear before the public, were, nevertheless, childishly and 
incomprehensibly delighted, every time we received any kind of set-back in 
our fight against Marxism? 


The bourgeois parties were happy to think that those whom they 
themselves could not oppose and to whom they had been forced to capitulate, 
could not be broken by us. 


What can be said for those State officials, chief of police, and even 
cabinet ministers, who showed a scandalous lack of principle in presenting 
themselves to the public as ‘nationalists’ and yet unashamedly played the part 
of henchmen to the Marxists in the disputes which we, the National Socialists, 
had with the latter? 


What can be said for persons who, for the sake of a little abject praise in 
the Jewish Press, debased themselves so far as to persecute those men to 
whose heroic courage and intervention, regardless of risk, they were partly 
indebted for not having been torn to pieces by the ‘Red’ mob a few years 
previously and strung up to the lamp-posts? 


One day these lamentable phenomena forced the late but unforgotten 
Prefect Pohner (a man whose unflinching honesty forced him to hate all 
twisters and to hate them as only an honourable man can hate) to say, ‘All my 
life I wished to be first a German and then an official, and I never wanted to be 
taken for one of those creatures who, like prostitutes, sold themselves body 
and soul to anybody who could play lord and master for the time being.’ 


It was extremely sad that gradually tens of thousands of honest and loyal 
servants of the State did not only come under the power of such people, but 
were also slowly contaminated by their unprincipled morals. 


Moreover, men of this kind pursued honest officials with a furious 
hatred, hounding them out of their jobs, while passing themselves off as 
‘nationalist’ with the aid of their lying hypocrisy. 


605 


From officials of that kind we could expect no support, and only in very 
rare instances was it given. Only by building up its own defence could our 
Movement become secure and attract that amount of public attention and 
general respect which is given to those who can defend themselves when 
attacked. 


We decided that, as an underlying principle in the internal development 
of the Storm Detachment, it should not only be perfectly trained as regards 
physical fitness, but that the men should be so instructed as to make them 
indomitably convinced champions of the National Socialist ideals and, finally, 
that they should be schooled to observe the strictest discipline. 


This body was to have nothing to do either with the defence 
organisations of the bourgeois type or with any secret organisation. 


Even at that time my reasons for guarding strictly against allowing the 
Storm Detachment of the National Socialist German Labour Party, to be 
organised on the lines of a defence league were as follows: 


On purely practical grounds it is impossible to build up a national 
defence organisation by means of private associations, unless the State makes 
an enormous contribution to it. Whoever thinks otherwise over-estimates his 
own powers. 


Now, it is entirely out of the question to form organisations of any 
military value for a definite purpose on the principle of so-called ‘voluntary 
discipline.’ 


Here the chief support for, the enforcement of orders, namely, the power 
to inflict punishment, 1s lacking. In the autumn, or rather in the spring, of 1919 
it was still possible to raise so-called Freikorps, not only because most of the 
men who came forward at that time had been through the school of the old 
Army, but also because the kind of duty imposed there constrained the 
individual to absolute obedience, at least for a definite period of time. 


That spirit is entirely lacking in the volunteer defence organisations of 
to-day. The larger the defence league grows, the weaker its discipline becomes 
and so much less can be demanded of the individual members. 


Thus, the whole organisation will assume more and more the character 
of the old non-political associations of ex-servicemen and veterans. 


606 


To attempt to instruct in military duties a large number of men who have 
volunteered to undergo such training, is impossible without the backing of 
absolute power to issue commands. 


There will always be very few men who will voluntarily and 
spontaneously submit to that kind of discipline which is considered natural and 
necessary in the Army. 


Moreover, a proper system of military training cannot be developed 
where the funds available are as ridiculously scanty as those at the disposal of 
the defence leagues. 


The principal task of such an institution must be to impart the best and 
most reliable kind of instruction. Eight years have passed since the end of the 
War, and during that time none of our German youth, at an age when formerly 
they would have had to do military service, have received any systematic 
training at all. 


The aim of a defence league cannot be to enlist all those who have 
already received a military training, since in that case it could be reckoned 
with mathematical accuracy when the last member would leave the league. 


Even the youngest soldier of 1918 will not be fit for front-line service 
twenty years later, and we are approaching that state of affairs with a rapidity 
that gives cause for anxiety. 


Thus the defence leagues must assume more and more the aspect of the 
old ex-service men’s association, but that cannot be the meaning and purpose 
of an institution which calls itself, not an association of ex-service men but a 
defence league. 


By that title it considers its task to be to preserve the tradition of the old 
soldiers and hold them together, to propagate the idea of national defence, and 
be able to put this idea into practice—which means the creation of a body of 
men who are fit and trained for military defence. 


In order to fulfil this condition, it is, however, necessary that those 
elements receive a military training which up to now have received none. 


This is something that, in practice, is impossible for the defence leagues 
to accomplish. Real soldiers cannot be made by training men for one or two 
hours per week. 


607 


In view of the enormously increasing demands which modern warfare 
imposes on each individual soldier to-day a military service of two years is 
barely sufficient to transform a raw recruit into a trained soldier. 


At the front during the War we all saw the fearful consequences which 
our young recruits had to suffer from their lack of a thorough military training. 


Volunteer formations which had been drilled for fifteen to twenty weeks 
under iron discipline and shown unlimited self-sacrificing enthusiasm proved 
nevertheless to be no better than cannon-fodder at the front. 


Only when distributed among the ranks of the old and experienced 
soldiers did the young recruits, who had been trained for four to six months, 
become useful members of a regiment. Guided by the ‘old stagers,’ they 
adapted themselves gradually to their task. 


In the light of all this, how hopeless must be any attempt to create a body 
of fighting troops by a so-called training of one to two hours in the week, 
without any definite power to enforce commands and without sufficient means. 


It might be possible to give old soldiers a ‘refresher course’ of this kind, 
but raw recruits cannot be turned into useful soldiers in this way. 


How such a proceeding produces utterly worthless results may also be 
strikingly demonstrated by the fact that, while these so-called volunteer 
defence leagues, by dint of tremendous effort and after overcoming many 
difficulties, train, or attempt to train, a few thousand willing men (the others 
being beyond their reach) for national defence; the State, through its pacifist- 
cum-democratic education, perverts the natural instincts of millions of young 
men, poisons their logical sense of patriotism and gradually turns them into a 
herd of sheep who will patiently follow any arbitrary command. 


In the face of all this how ridiculous are all the attempts made by defence 
leagues to inculcate their ideas upon the minds of the German youth! 


Almost more important is the following consideration, which has always 
made me take up a stand against all attempts at a so-called military training on 
the basis of the volunteer associations. 


Assuming that, in spite of all the difficulties just mentioned, a defence 
league were successful in training a certain number of Germans every year to 
be efficient soldiers, with regards to mental outlook, physical fitness and the 


608 


expert handling of arms; the result must necessarily be null and void in a State 
whose whole tendency makes it look upon such a defensive organisation as 
undesirable and even intolerable—because such an organisation would be in 
complete contradiction to the secret aims of the political leaders, who are the 
corruptors of this State. 


Such a result would, in any case, be worthless under governments which 
have demonstrated by their own acts that they do not attach the slightest 
importance to the military power of the nation and are not disposed to have 
recourse to that power unless for the preservation of their own existence on 
earth. 


That is the state of affairs to-day. Is it not ridiculous to think of training 
some ten thousand men in the use of arms, and to carry on that training 
surreptitiously, when a few years previously the State, having shamefully 
sacrificed eight and a half million highly trained soldiers, not merely did not 
require their services any longer but, as a mark of gratitude for their faithful 
service, held them up to public contumely? 


Shall we train soldiers for a regime which besmirched and spat upon our 
most glorious soldiers, tore the medals and badges from their breasts, trampled 
on their flags and derided their achievements? 


Has the present regime taken one step towards restoring the honour of the 
old Army and making those who destroyed and outraged it answer for their 
deeds? Not in the least. 


On the contrary, the people I have just referred to may be seen enthroned 
in the highest governmental positions to-day, and yet it was said at Leipzig, 
‘Right is might.’ 

Since, however, in our Republic to-day might is in the hands of the very 
men who started the Revolution, and since that Revolution represents a most 
despicable act of high treason against the nation yes the vilest act in German 
history—there can surely be no grounds for saying that the might of these men 
should be enhanced by the formation of a new young army. It is against all 
sound reason. 


The importance which this State attached, after the Revolution of 1918, 
to the reinforcement of its position from the military point of view is clearly 
and unmistakably demonstrated by its attitude towards the large self-defence 


609 


organisations which existed at that period. 


They were not unwelcome as long as they were of use for the protection 
of the miserable creatures who had come into power with the Revolution. 


As soon as the danger threatening these creatures seemed to be on the 
decrease, thanks to the gradual debasement of our people, and the existence of 
the defence leagues represented a national-political strengthening factor, they 
became superfluous and every effort was made to disarm them and suppress 
them wherever that was possible. 


History records but few examples of gratitude on the part of princes and 
only a patriot belonging to the new bourgeoisie would dream of counting on the 
gratitude of revolutionary incendiaries and assassins, who have enriched 
themselves by robbing the public and by betraying the nation. 


On examining the problem as to the wisdom of forming these defence 
leagues, I could not refrain from asking: ‘For whom shall I train these young 
men? For what purpose will they be employed and when are they to be called 
out?’ 


The answer to these questions provides the best rule for us to follow. 


If the present State should one day call upon trained troops of this kind it 
would never be for the purpose of defending the interests of the nation against 
the foreigner, but rather to protect the oppressors of the nation within the 
country against the danger of a general outbreak of wrath on the part of a nation 
which has been deceived and betrayed and whose interests have been bartered 
away. 


For this reason it was decided that the Storm Detachment of the National 
Socialist German Labour Party ought not to be in the nature of a military 
organisation. 


It had to be an instrument of protection and education for the National 
Socialist Movement and its duties lay in quite a different sphere to those of the 
military defence association. Moreover, the Storm Detachment was not to be in 
the nature of a secret organisation. 


Secret organisations are established only for purposes that are illegal, 
and the purpose of such an organisation is limited by its very nature. 


610 


Considering the loquacious propensities of the German people, it is not 
possible to build up any vast organisation, at the same time keeping it secret or 
disguising its purpose. 


Every attempt of that kind is destined to turn out absolutely futile. 


It is not merely that our political officials to-day have at their disposal a 
staff of informers and other such rabble who are ready to play traitor, like 
Judas, for thirty pieces of silver and will betray whatever secrets they can 
discover and will invent what they do not know, for the sake of having 
something to reveal, but one’s own followers cannot be relied upon to maintain 
the silence necessary in such circumstances. 


Only small groups can become really secret societies, and that only after 
long years of selective elimination, but the very smallness of such groups 
would deprive them of all value for the National Socialist Movement. 


What we needed then, and need now, is not one or two hundred dare- 
devil conspirators, but hundreds of thousands of devoted champions of our 
Weltanschauung. 


The work must not be done through secret conventicles, but through 
impressive mass demonstrations in public. Dagger and pistol and poison-vial 
cannot clear the way for the progress of the Movement; that can be done only 
by winning over the man in the street. 


We must teach the Marxists that, in future, National Socialism will be 
master of the street, just as it will one day become master of the State. 


There is another danger connected with secret societies, It lies in the fact 
that their members often completely misunderstand the greatness of the task in 
hand and are apt to believe that the destiny of the nation can be assured 
overnight by the assassination of a, single man. 


Such a belief may find historical justification in cases where a nation 
had been suffering under the tyranny of some oppressor who at the same time 
was a man of genius and whose extraordinary personality was the sole 
guarantee for the continuance and frightfulness of his terrible oppression. 


In such cases a man may suddenly arise from the ranks of the people who 
is ready to sacrifice himself and plunge his deadly steel into the heart of the 
hated individual. 


611 


In order to look upon such a deed with horror one must have the 
republican mentality of petty rogues conscious of their own crime, but Schiller, 
the greatest poet-champion of liberty that the German people have ever had, 
has glorified such a deed in his ‘Wilhelm Tell.’ 


During 1919 and 1920 there was a danger that the members of secret 
organisations, under the influence of great historical examples and overcome 
by the immensity of the nations misfortunes, might attempt to wreak vengeance 
on the destroyers of their country, in the belief that this would end the miseries 
of the people. 


All such attempts were sheer folly, by reason of the fact that the Marxist 
triumph was not due to the superior genius of one remarkable person, but rather 
to immeasurable incompetence and cowardly shirking on the part of the 
bourgeoisie. 


The hardest criticism that can be uttered against our bourgeoisie 1s 
simply to state the fact that it submitted to the Revolution, even though the 
Revolution did not produce one single man of outstanding worth. 


One can, after all, understand how it was possible to capitulate to a 
Robespierre, a Danton, or a Marat; but it was utterly scandalous to go down on 
all fours before the withered Scheidemann, the obese Herr Erzberger, 
Friedrich Ebert, and the innumerable other political pygmies of the Revolution. 


There was not a single man of parts in whom one could see the 
revolutionary man of genius. Therein lay the country’s misfortune, for they 
were only revolutionary Spartacist vermin wholesale and retail. 


To put one of them out of the way was of little avail, as the only result 
was that another pair of blood-suckers, equally fat and thirsty, was ready to 
take his place. During those years we had to take up a determined stand against 
an attitude which had its origin and justification in genuinely great historical 
phenomena, but which did not, in the least, suit our present pigmy age. 


The same holds good in cases where it is a question of ‘bumping’ a so- 
called traitor to his country. 


It would be ridiculous and illogical to shoot a poor wretch who had 
betrayed the position of a gun to the enemy while the highest positions in the 
government are occupied by a rabble who bartered away a whole empire, who 
have on their consciences the deaths of two million men who were sacrificed 


612 


in vain, fellows who were responsible for the millions maimed in the war, but 
who, nevertheless, continue unperturbed to ‘make a good thing’ out of the 
republican regime without allowing their conscience to be disturbed in any 
way. 


It would be absurd to do away with small traitors ina State whose 
government absolves traitors on a large scale from all punishment. For it might 
easily happen that one day an honest idealist, who, out of love for his country, 
had removed some miserable informer who had betrayed the whereabouts of 
secret stores of arms was called upon to answer for his act before the chief 
traitors of the country. 


There is yet another important question, namely, 1s some petty traitorous 
wretch to meet death at the bands of another petty traitor, or of an idealist? 


In the former case the result would be doubtful and the deed would 
almost surely be revealed later on. 


In the second case an unworthy rascal is put out of the way, but the life of 
an idealist who may be irreplaceable is placed in jeopardy. 


For my own part, I believe that small thieves should not be hanged while 
big thieves are allowed go free. 


One day a national tribunal will have to judge and sentence some tens of 
thousands of organisers who were responsible for the criminal November 
betrayal and all the consequences that followed on it. Such an example will 
teach the necessary lesson, once, and for ever, to such as those paltry traitors 
who revealed to the enemy the places where arms were hidden. 


On the grounds of these considerations I steadfastly forbade all 
participation in secret societies, and I took care that the Storm Detachment 
should not assume such a character. 


During those years I prevented the National Socialist Movement from 
making experiments such as were being undertaken by young Germans who 
were, for the most part, inspired by a sublime idealism, but who became the 
victims of their own actions, without being able to ameliorate the lot of their 
Fatherland in the slightest degree. 


If, then, the Storm Detachment must not be either a military defence 
organisation or a secret society, we arrive at the following conclusion: 


613 


Firstly, its training must not be organised from the military standpoint, 
but from the point of view of what is most practical for party purposes. 


In so far as the members have to undergo a thorough physical training, 
attention must not be focussed mainly on military drill, but rather on the 
practice of sports. 


I have always considered boxing and ju-jitsu more important than 
training in rifle shooting, which, if inadequate, is definitely bad. 


If the German nation were presented with a body of six million young 
men who had been perfectly trained in athletic sports, who were imbued with 
an ardent love of their country and were ready to take the initiative in a fight, 
then the nationalist State could make an army out of that body within less than 
two years, if necessary, provided the cadres already existed. 


The situation being what it is to-day, the cadres would be furnished only 
by the Reichswehr, and not by a defence league that was neither one thing nor 
the other. 


Physical fitness must develop in the individual a conviction of his 
superiority and give him that confidence which is always based only on the 
consciousness of one’s own prowess. 


It must also develop that athletic agility which can be employed as a 
defensive weapon in the service of the Movement. 


Secondly, in order to safeguard the Storm Detachment against acquiring a 
secret character, the uniform must not only be such that it can immediately be 
recognised by everybody, but the large number of its members must serve as an 
indication of a course of action which is of advantage to the Movement and is 
known to the general public. 


The members of the Storm Detachment must not hold secret gatherings, 
but must march in the open and thus be employed in a manner which will put an 
end to all legends about a secret organisation in order to prevent them from 
finding an outlet for their mental energies in small conspiracies. 


We had from the very beginning to inculcate upon their minds the great 
idea behind the Movement and to educate them so thoroughly in the task of 
defending this idea that their horizon became enlarged and the individual no 
longer considered it his mission to ‘remove’ some rascal or other, whether big 


614 


or small, but to devote himself entirely to the task of bringing about the 
establishment of a new National Socialist volkisch State. 


In this way the struggle against the present State was placed on a higher 
plane than that of petty revenge and small conspiracies. 


It was elevated to the level of a spiritual struggle on behalf of a 
Weltanschauung, for the destruction of Marxism in all its shapes and forms. 


Thirdly, the form of organisation adopted for the Storm Detachment, as 
well as its uniform and equipment, had to be on a different model from those of 
the old Army. 


They had to be specially adapted to the task that was assigned to the 
Storm Detachment. 


These were the ideas I followed out in 1920 and 1921. I endeavoured to 
instil them gradually into the members of the young organisation, with the result 
that by the midsummer of 1922 we had a goodly number of formations each 
consisting of a hundred men. 


By the late autumn of that year these formations received their distinctive 
uniforms. There were three events which turned out to be of supreme 
importance for the subsequent development of the Storm Detachment. 


The first was the great mass demonstration against the Law for the 
Protection of the Republic held in the late summer of 1922 in the Konigsplatz 
in Munich. 


The patriotic associations of Munich had announced the holding of a 
gigantic mass demonstration as a protest against the introduction of the Law for 
the Protection of the Republic. The National Socialist Movement also 
participated. 


Our Party marched into the Square, in serried ranks, led by six Munich 
Storm Detachment units followed by the political sections of the Party. 


Two bands marched with us and about fifteen banners were carried. 
When the National Socialists arrived at the great square it was already half 
full, but no banners were displayed. 


Our arrival aroused unbounded enthusiasm. I myself had the honour of 
being one of the speakers who addressed that crowd of about sixty thousand 


615 


people. 


The demonstration was an overwhelming success, especially because it 
was proved for the first time that nationalist Munich could march through the 
streets, in spite of all threats from the Reds. 


Members of the organisation for the defence of the Red Republic 
endeavoured to hinder the marching columns by their terrorist activities, but 
they were scattered by the companies of the Storm Detachment within a few 
minutes and sent packing. The National Socialist Movement then showed for 
the first time that in future it was determined to exercise its right to march 
through the streets and thus deprive the international traitors and enemies of the 
country of their monopoly of this privilege. 


The events of that, day provided incontestable proof that our views on 
the creation of the Storm Detachment were right, both from the psychological 
standpoint and from the point of view of organisation. 


The principle having thus been proved correct we pushed on with the 
establishment of Storm Detachment units so that within a few weeks the 
number of Munich units was doubled. 


The second event was the expedition to Coburg in October 1922. Certain 
so-called vélkisch societies had decided to hold a German Rally at Coburg. 


I was invited to take part, with the intimation that they wished me to 
bring a following along. This invitation, which I received at eleven o’clock in 
the morning, arrived just in time. 


Within an hour the arrangements for our participation in the German 
Rally were completed. I picked eight hundred men of the Storm Detachment to 
accompany me. 


These were divided into about fourteen companies and were to be 
conveyed by special train from Munich to Coburg, which had become a part of 
Bavaria. Corresponding orders were given to other groups of the National 
Socialist Storm Detachment which had meanwhile been formed in various 
other localities. 


This was the first time that a special train for us was run in Germany. At 
all the places where the new units of the Storm Detachment joined us, our train 
caused a sensation. 


616 


Many of the people had never seen our banner and it created a very great 
impression. 


When we arrived at the station in Coburg we were received by a 
deputation of the organising committee of the German Rally. 


They announced that by order of the local trade-unions—that is to say, 
the Independent and Communist Parties—it had been ‘arranged’ that we should 
not enter the town with our banners unfurled and our band playing (we had a 
hand consisting of forty-two musicians with us) and that we should not march 
in formation. 


I immediately rejected these undignified conditions and did not fail to 
declare to the gentlemen who had arranged this ‘rally’ how astonished I was at 
the idea of their negotiating with such people and coming to an arrangement 
with them. 


Then I announced that the Storm Troops would immediately march into 
the town in company formation, with flags flying and band playing—which we 
proceeded to do forthwith. 


As we emerged in to the station square we were met by a hissing, yelling 
mob of several thousands, which greeted us with shouts of: ‘Assassins!’ 
‘Bandits!’ ‘Robbers!’ ‘Criminals!’ These were the choice names which these 
exemplary founders of the German Republic showered on us. 


The young Storm Detachment gave a fine exhibition of discipline. The 
companies fell into formation in the square in front of the station and at first 
took no notice of the insults hurled at them by the mob. 


The police were anxious. They did not pilot us to the quarters assigned 
to us on the outskirts of Coburg, a city quite unknown to us, but to the 
Hofbrauhaus-Keller in the centre of the town. 


To right and left of us as we marched the tumult raised by the 
accompanying mob steadily increased. 


Scarcely had the last company entered the courtyard of the Hofbrauhaus 
when the huge mob made a rush to get in after them, shouting madly. 


In order to prevent this, the police locked the gates. Seeing that the 
position was untenable I called the Storm Detachment to attention spoke a few 


617 


words to them and then asked the police to open the gates immediately. 
After a good deal of hesitation; they consented. 


We now marched back along the same route by which we had come, in 
the direction of our quarters and there we had to make a stand against the 
crowd. 


As their cries and yells all along the route had failed to disturb the 
equanimity of our companies, the champions of true Socialism, Equality, and 
Fraternity, now took to throwing stones. 


That brought our patience to an end. For ten minutes blows fell right and 
left, like a devastating shower of hail. Fifteen minutes later there were no Reds 
to be seen in the street. 


After nightfall serious clashes occurred. Patrols of the Storm Detachment 
had discovered National Socialists who had been attacked singly and were in 
a dangerous condition. 


Thereupon we made short work of the opponents. By the following 
morning the Red Terror, under which Coburg had been suffering for years, was 
definitely broken. 


With typical Marxist and Jewish mendacity, an attempt was made by the 
distribution of leaflets to passers-by in the street to incite the ‘comrades of the 
International Proletariat’ to demonstrate, once more in the public streets. 


Completely distorting the facts, they declared that our ‘bands of 
assassins’ had commenced ‘a war of extermination against the peaceful 
workers of Coburg.’ 


At half-past one that day there was to be a ‘great popular demonstration,’ 
at which it was hoped that thousands of workers from the whole district would 
turn up. 


I was determined finally to crush this Red Terror and so I summoned the 
Storm Detachment to meet at midday. 


Their number had now increased to fifteen hundred. I decided to march 
with these men to the Coburg citadel and to cross the big square where the Red 
demonstration was to take place. 


618 


I wanted to see if they would attempt to assault us again. When we 
entered the square we found that, instead of the thousands that had been 
advertised, there were only a few hundred people present. 


As we approached, they remained silent for the most part, and some ran 
away. Only at certain points along the route some bodies, of Reds, who had 
arrived from outside the city and had not yet come to know us, attempted to 
start a row, but they were soon put to flight. 


We could now observe how the town’s people, who had for such a long 
time been so thoroughly intimidated, slowly woke up and recovered their 
courage. 


They welcomed us openly, and in the evening, on our return march, 
spontaneous cheering broke out at several points along the route. 


At the station the railway officials informed us all of a sudden that our 
train would not depart. Thereupon I had some of the ringleaders told that if this 
were the case I would arrest all the Red Party heroes on whom we could lay 
our hands, that we would drive the train ourselves, but that we would take 
away with us, in the locomotive, on the tender and in every carriage, a few 
dozen disciples of international solidarity. 


I did not omit to let these gentry know that if we had to drive the train, 
the journey would undoubtedly be a very risky adventure and that we might all 
break our necks. 


It would be a consolation, however, to know that we should not go to 
Eternity alone, but in equality and fraternity with the Red gentry. 


Thereupon the train departed punctually and we arrived next morning 
safe and sound in Munich. 


Thus at Coburg, for the first time since 1914, the equality of all citizens 
was re-established in the eye of the law, for even if some coxcomb of a higher 
official should presume to assert to-day that the State protects the lives of its 
citizens, in those days at least it was not so. At that time the citizens had to 
defend themselves against the representatives of the present State. 


At first it was not possible fully to estimate the importance of the 
consequences of that day. The victorious Storm Troops had their confidence in 
themselves considerably reinforced and also their faith in the sagacity of their 


619 


leaders. 


Our contemporaries began to pay us special attention and for the first 
time many recognised in the National Socialist Movement an institution which 
was in all probability destined to bring the Marxist folly to an end. Only the 
democrats lamented the fact that we had not had the complaisance to allow our 
skulls to be cracked and that, in a democratic Republic, we had dared to reply 
to a brutal assault with fisticuffs and cudgels rather than with pacifist chants. 


The bourgeois press as a whole adopted, as usual, an attitude that was 
partly lachrymose and partly mean. Only a few decent newspapers expressed 
their satisfaction that in one locality at least, the Marxist street-bullies had 
been effectively dealt with. 


In Coburg itself, at least a section of the Marxist workers who must be 
looked upon as misled, learned from the blows of National Socialist fists that 
they too, were workers fighting for ideals, because experience teaches that the 
human being fights only for something in which he believes and which he 
loves. 


The Storm Detachment itself benefited most from the Coburg expedition. 
It grew so quickly in numbers that at the Party Congress in January 1923, six 
thousand men participated in the ceremony of consecrating the flags and the 
first companies appeared for the first time in the glory of their new uniform. 


Our experience at Coburg proved how essential it was to introduce one 
distinctive uniform for the Storm Detachment, not only for the purpose of 
strengthening its esprit de corps, but also to avoid confusion and the danger of 
not recognising the opponent in a fight. Up to that time they had merely been 
distinguished by the armlet, but now the tunic and the well-known cap were 
added. 


The experience gained at Coburg had also another important result. We 
now determined to break the Red Terror in all those localities in which it had 
for many years prevented men of other views from holding meetings. 


We were determined to restore the right of free assembly. From that time 
onward we brought our battalions together in such places and little by little the 
Red citadels of Bavaria fell one after another before tie National Socialist 
propaganda. 


The Storm Troops became more and more adept at their task. Gradually, 


620 


they placed an increasingly wide gulf between themselves and the aimless 
defence movements and established themselves as an active militant 
organisation, fighting for the establishment of a new German State. 


This logical development continued until March 1923. Then an event 
occurred which made me divert the Movement from the course hitherto 
followed and introduce certain fundamental formations. 


The third event was that in the first months of 1923 the French occupied 
the Ruhr district. The consequence of this was of great importance in the 
development of the Storm Detachment. 


It is no yet possible, nor would it be in the interests of the nation, to 
write or speak openly and freely on the subject. I shall speak of it only in so far 
as the matter has been dealt with in public discussions and thus brought to the 
knowledge of everybody. The occupation of the Ruhr district, which did not 
come as a Surprise to us, gave grounds for hoping that Germany would at last 
abandon her cowardly policy of submission and thereby give the defence 
leagues a definite task to fulfil. 


The Storm Detachment, which now numbered several thousand vigorous 
young men, would also have participated in this national service. 


During the spring and summer of 1923 it was transformed into a fighting 
military organisation. It is to this reorganisation that we must in great part 
attribute the later developments that took place during 1923, in so far as these 
affected our Movement. 


Elsewhere I shall deal in broad outline with the events of 1923. Here I 
wish only to state that the transformation of the Storm Detachment at that time 
was detrimental to the interests of the Movement, since the condition (namely, 
the adoption of a policy of active resistance against France) which had led to 
the change, was never realised. 


The events which took place at the close of 1923, terrible as they may 
appear at first sight, were almost a necessity if looked at from a higher 
standpoint; because in view of the attitude taken by the Government of the 
German Reich, the conversion of the Storm Troops into a military force 
became meaningless and thus a transformation which would have proved 
harmful to the Movement was stopped forthwith. 


Thereby it was made possible for us to set about the task of 


621 


reconstruction at the point at which we had been diverted from our proper 
course. 


In the year 1925 the National Socialist German Labour Party was re- 
founded and had to organise and train its Storm Detachment once again 
according to the principles I had laid down. 


It must revert, to its original sound views and must once more consider 
as its most essential function the establishment of its Storm Detachments as an 
instrument of defence and strength in the Movement’s struggle to establish its 
Weltanschauung and once more it must consider it as its most essential task to 
function as the instrument of defence and reinforcement in the spiritual struggle 
to establish the ideals of the Movement. 


The Storm Detachment must not be allowed to sink to the level of 
something in the nature of a defence league or a secret society. Steps must 
rather be taken to make it a force one hundred thousand strong to act as 
champion of the National Socialist, and thus of the genuinely volkisch ideal. 


622 


623 


624 

