The echoes of our first great meeting, in the Festsaal of the Hofbrauhaus 
on February 24th, 1920, had not yet died away when we began preparations 
for our next meeting. 


Up to that time we had had to consider carefully the advisability of 
holding a small meeting every month, or at most every fortnight, in a city like 
Munich; but now it was decided that we should hold a mass meeting every 
week. 


I need not say that on each occasion we anxiously asked ourselves again 
and again: Will the people come and will they listen? Personally, I was firmly 
convinced that if once they came they would remain to listen. 


During that period the hall of the Hofbrauhaus in Munich acquired for us 
National Socialists a sort of mystic significance. 


Every week there was a meeting, almost always in that hall, and each 
time the hall was better filled than on the former occasion, and our public more 
attentive. 


Starting with the theme, ‘Responsibility for the War,’ about which 
nobody cared at that time, and passing on to the discussion of the peace 
treaties, we dealt with almost everything that served to stimulate the minds of 
our hearers and make them interested in our ideas. 


We drew attention to the peace treaties. What the new Movement 
prophesied again and again before those great masses of people has been 
fulfilled in almost every detail. 


Today it is easy to talk and write about these things, but in those days, to 
criticise the Peace Treaty of Versailles at a public mass meeting attended not 
by the small bourgeoisie, but by proletarians who had been worked up by 
agitators, amounted to an attack on the Republic and an evidence of 
reactionary, if not of monarchist, tendencies. 


The moment one uttered the first criticism of the Versailles Treaty one 


525 


could expect an immediate reply, which became almost stereotyped, ‘And what 
about Brest Litovsk?’ 


‘Brest Litovsk!’ And then the crowd would murmur and the murmur 
would gradually swell to a roar, until the speaker would have to give up his 
attempt to persuade them. We felt that we were knocking our heads against a 
brick wall, so thoroughly did we despair of such a public. They neither wanted 
to be told nor to admit that Versailles was a scandal and a disgrace and that the 
dictate signified an act of highway robbery against our people. 


The disruptive work done by the Marxists and the poisonous propaganda 
of the enemy had robbed these people of their reason. 


Nor had we the right to complain, for the guilt on the German side was 
enormous. What had the German bourgeoisie done to call a halt to this terrible 
campaign of disintegration, to oppose it and open a way to a recognition of the 
truth by giving, a better and more thorough explanation of the situation than that 
given by the Marxists? Nothing at all. 


At that time I never saw those who are now the great apostles of the 
people. Perhaps they spoke to select groups, at tea-parties of their own little 
coteries, but where they ought to have been, where the wolves were at work, 
they never dared to appear, unless they found an opportunity of yelling in 
concert with the wolves. 


As for myself, I then saw clearly that for the small group which first 
composed our Movement the question of war-guilt had to be cleared up, and 
cleared up in the light of historical truth. 


A preliminary condition for the future success of our Movement was that 
it should bring knowledge of the meaning of the peace treaties to the minds of 
the masses. In the opinion of the masses, the peace treaties then signified a 
democratic success. 


Therefore, it was necessary to take the opposite side and impress 
ourselves on the minds of the people as the enemies of the peace treaties, so 
that later on, when the naked truth of this despicable swindle should be 
disclosed in all its hideousness, the people would recall the attitude which we 
then took up and would give us their confidence. 


Even at that time I adopted the attitude that if public opinion went astray 
on important and fundamental questions, it was necessary to oppose it, 


526 


regardless of popularity, hatred or the bitterness of the fight. 


The National Socialist German Labour Party ought not to be the servant, 
but rather the master, of public opinion. It must not serve the masses, but 
dominate them. 


In the case of every movement, especially during its struggling stages, 
there is naturally a temptation to conform to the tactics of an opponent and use 
the same battle cries, when his tactics have succeeded in leading the people to 
crazy conclusions, or to adopt a mistaken attitude towards the questions at 
issue. 


This temptation is particularly strong when motives can be found, though 
they are entirely illusory, that seem to point towards the same ends at which the 
young movement is aiming. 


Human poltroonery will then all the more readily adopt those arguments 
which give it a semblance of justification, ‘from its own point of view,’ for 
participating in the criminal policy which the adversary is following. 


On several occasions, I have experienced such crises, in which the 
greatest energy had to be employed to prevent the ship of our Movement from 
being drawn into a general current which had been started artificially, and 
indeed from sailing with it. 


The last occasion was when our accursed press, to which the existence 
of the German nation is unimportant, succeeded in bringing into prominence the 
question of South Tyrol which is bound to prove fatal to the interests of the 
German people. 


Without considering what interests they were serving several so-called 
‘national’ men, parties and leagues, joined in the general cry, simply for fear of 
public opinion which had been excited by the Jews, and foolishly contributed 
to help in the struggle against a system which we Germans ought, particularly 
in these days, to consider as the one ray of light in this distracted world. 


While the international Jew is slowly but surely strangling us, our so- 
called patriots vociferate against a man and his system which have had the 
courage to liberate themselves from the shackles of Jewish freemasonry, at 
least in one quarter of the globe, and to set the forces of national resistance 
against the international world poison. 


527 


But weak characters were tempted to set their sails according to the 
direction of the wind and to capitulate before the storm of public opinion—for 
it was truly a capitulation. 


Even if people are so much in the habit of lying and so morally base that 
they do not admit it even to themselves, the truth remains that only cowardice 
and fear of the public feeling aroused by the Jews induced certain people to 
join in the hue and cry. 


All the other reasons put forward were only the miserable excuses of 
paltry culprits who were conscious of their own crime. 


Then it was necessary to grasp the rudder with an iron hand and turn the 
Movement about, so as to save it from a course that would have set it on the 
rocks. 


Certainly, to attempt such a change of course was not a popular 
manoeuvre at that time, when public opinion had been fanned by every 
conceivable means and its trend was in one direction only. 


Such a decision almost always brings disaster on those who dare to take 
it. In the course of history not a few men have been stoned for an act for which 
posterity has afterwards had reason to thank them on its knees. 


But a movement must count on posterity and not on the plaudits of the 
moment. It may well be that at such times certain individuals have to endure 
hours of anguish, but they should not forget that the moment of liberation will 
come and that a movement which purposes to reshape the world must serve the 
future and not the passing hour. 


In this connection it may be asserted that the greatest and most enduring 
successes in history are mostly those which were least understood at the 
beginning, because they were in direct opposition to public opinion and the 
views and wishes of the time. 


We had experience of this when we made our own first public 
appearance. It can be said in all truth that we did not court public favour, but 
made an onslaught on the follies of our people. 


In those days what happened almost always was that I presented myself 
before an assembly of men who believed the opposite of what I wished to say 
and who wanted the opposite of what I believed in. 


528 


Then I had to spend a couple of hours in convincing two or three 
thousand people that the opinions they had hitherto held were false, in 
destroying the foundations of their views with one blow after another and 
finally in persuading them to take their stand on the grounds of our own 
convictions and our Weltanschauung. 


I learned something that was important at that time, namely, to snatch 
from the hands of the enemy the weapons which he was using in his reply. 


I soon noticed that our adversaries, especially in the persons of those 
who led the discussion against us, were furnished with a definite repertoire of 
arguments out of which they took points against bur claims which they were 
constantly repeating. 


The uniform character of this mode of procedure pointed to a systematic 
and uniform training and so we were able to recognise the incredible way in 
which the enemy’s propagandists had been disciplined and I am proud today 
that I discovered a means not only of making this propaganda ineffective, but of 
beating the authors of it at their own game. 


Two years later I was master of this art. In every speech which I made it 
was important to get a clear idea beforehand of the probable form and matter 
of the counter-arguments we had to expect in the discussion, so that in the 
course of my own specch these could be dealt with and refuted. 


To this end it was necessary to mention all the possible objections and 
show their inconsistency; it was all the easier to win over an honest listener by 
expunging from his memory the arguments which had been impressed upon it, 
so that, I anticipated his replies. 


What he had learned was refuted without having been mentioned by him 
and that made him all the more attentive to what I had to say. 


That was the reason why, after my first lecture on ‘The Peace Treaty of 
Versailles,’ which I delivered to the troops while I was still a political 
instructor in my regiment, I made an alteration in the title and subject and 
henceforth spoke on, ‘The Treaties of Brest-Litovsk and Versailles.’ I did so 
because, during the discussion which followed my first lecture, I quickly 
ascertained that in reality people knew nothing about the Treaty of Brest- 
Litovsk and that able party propaganda had succeeded in presenting that treaty 
as one of the most scandalous acts of violence in the history of the world. 


529 


As a result of the persistency with which this falsehood was repeated 
again and again to the masses of the people, millions of Germans saw in the 
Treaty of Versailles a just retribution for the crime we had committed at Brest- 
Litovsk. 


Thus they considered all opposition to Versailles as unjust and in many 
cases there was an honest moral dislike of such a proceeding. 


This was also the reason why the shameless and monstrous word 
‘reparations’ came into common use in Germany. This hypocritical falsehood 
appeared to millions of our exasperated fellow-countrymen as the merit of a 
higher justice. It is a terrible thought, but the fact was so. 


The best proof of this was the propaganda which I initiated against 
Versailles by explaining the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. I compared the two 
treaties, point by point, and showed how in truth the one treaty was immensely 
humane, in contradiction to the inhuman barbarity of the other. 


The effect was very striking. When I used to speak on this theme before 
an assembly of two thousand persons, I often saw three thousand six hundred 
hostile eyes fixed on me, yet three hours later I had in front of me a crowd 
swayed by righteous indignation and fury. 


A great lie had been uprooted from the hearts and brains of thousands of 
individuals and a truth had been implanted in its place. 


The two lectures that ‘On the Causes of the World War’ and the other on 
‘The Peace Treaties of Brest-Litovsk and Versailles’, I then considered as the 
most important, of all. 


Therefore, I repeated them dozens of times, always giving them a new 
intonation, until, on those points at least, there reigned a definitely clear and 
unanimous opinion among those from whom our Movement recruited its first 
members. 


Furthermore, these gatherings, had for me the advantage that I slowly 
became a platform orator at mass meetings, and they gave me practice in the 
pathos and gesture required in large halls that held thousands of people. 


Apart from the small circles already mentioned, I could not discover that 
the slightest effort was being made by any party to explain things to the people 
in this way. 


530 


Not one of those parties was then active which talk to-day as if it were 
they who had brought about the change in public opinion. Ifa political leader, 
calling himself a nationalist, pronounced a discourse somewhere or other on 
this theme it was only to circles which were, for the most part already of his 
own conviction and among whom the most that was done was to confirm them 
in their opinions. 


But that was not what was needed then. What was needed was to win 
over through propaganda and explanation those who, by education and 
conviction, belonged to the enemy camp. 


The one-page circular was also adopted by us to help in this 
propaganda. While still a soldier I had written a circular in which I contrasted 
the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk with that of Versailles. 


That circular was printed and distributed in large numbers. Later on I 
used it for the Party, and also with good success. 


Our first meetings were distinguished by the fact that there were tables 
covered with leaflets, papers, and pamphlets of every kind, but we relied 
principally on the spoken word. 


And, indeed this is the only means capable of producing really great 
revolutions, which fact can be explained on general psychological grounds. 


In the first volume I have already stated that all the formidable events 
which have changed the aspect of the world were carried through, not by the 
written, but by the spoken word. 


On that point there was a long discussion in a certain section of the 
press, during the course of which our shrewd bourgeois people strongly 
opposed my thesis, but the reason for this attitude confounded the sceptics. 


The bourgeois intelligentsia protested against my attitude simply because 
they themselves did not have either the force or the ability to influence the 
masses through the spoken word, for they always relied exclusively on the help 
of writers and did not enter the arena themselves as orators for the purpose of 
arousing the people. 


This habit necessarily led to that condition of affairs which is 
characteristic of the bourgeoisie to-day, namely, the loss of the psychological 
instinct to work up and influence the masses. 


531 


An orator receives continuous guidance from the people whom he is 
addressing. This helps him to correct the trend of his speech, for he can always 
gauge, by the faces of his hearers, how far they follow and understand him, and 
whether his words are producing the desired effect. 


The writer, on the other hand, does not know his reader at all. Therefore, 
from the outset, he does not address himself to a definite group of persons 
which he has before him, but must write in a general way. 


Hence, to a certain extent he must fail in psychological finesse and 
flexibility. Therefore, in general it may be said that a brilliant orator writes 
better than a brilliant writer can speak, unless the latter has continual practice 
in public speaking. One must also remember that of itself the multitude is 
mentally inert. It clings to its old habits and is not naturally prone to read 
something which does not conform to its own pre-established beliefs or does 
not contain what it hopes to find there. Therefore, a piece of writing which has 
a particular tendency is for the most part read only by those who are in 
sympathy with it. Only a leaflet or a placard, on account of its brevity can hope 
to arouse a momentary interest in those whose opinions differ from it. 


The picture, in all its forms, including the film has better prospects. Here 
less intelligence is required on the part of the audience, it need only gaze, or at 
most read short captions or titles, and so it comes about that many people are 
more ready to accept a pictorial presentation than to read a long written 
description. 


A pictorial representation will convey to people much more quickly (one 
might almost say, immediately) an idea, to grasp which would require long and 
arduous effort if they were forced to read about it. 


The most important consideration, however, is that one never knows into 
what hands a piece of written material may fall and yet the form in which its 
subject is presented must remain the same. 


In general, the effect is greater when the form of treatment corresponds to 
the mental level of the reader and suits his nature. 


Therefore, a book which is meant for the broad masses of the people 
must try from the very start to gain its effects through a style and level of ideas 
which would be quite different from those of a book intended to be read by the 
higher intellectual classes. 


532 


Only through this capacity for adaptability does the force of the written 
word approach that of direct speech. The orator may deal with the same 
subject as a book deals with, but if he has the genius of a great and popular 
orator he will scarcely ever repeat the same argument or the same material in 
the same form on two consecutive occasions. 


He will always follow the lead of the great masses in such a way that 
from the living emotion of his hearers the apt word which he needs will be 
suggested to him and in its turn this will go straight to the hearts of his hearers. 


Should he make even a slight mistake he has the living correction before 
him. As I have already said, he can read the play of expression on the faces of 
his hearers, firstly to see if they understand what he says, secondly, to see if 
they take in the whole of his argument and, thirdly, to see 1n how far he has 
succeeded in convincing them of the justice of what he has, said. 


Should he observe, firstly, that his hearers do not understand him, he will 
make his explanation so elementary and clear that they will be able to grasp it, 
even to the last individual. 


Secondly, if he feels that they are not capable of following him he will 
make one idea follow another carefully and slowly until the most slow-witted 
hearer no, longer lags behind. 


Thirdly, as soon as he has the feeling that they do not seem convinced 
that he is right in the way he has put things to them he will repeat his argument 
over and over again, always giving fresh illustrations and he himself will state 
their unspoken objection. 


He will repeat these objections, dissecting them and refuting them, until 
the last group of the opposition shows him by its behaviour and play of 
expression that it has capitulated before his exposition of the case. 


Not infrequently it is a case of overcoming ingrained prejudices which 
are mostly unconscious and founded on sentiment rather than on reason. 


It is a thousand times more difficult to overcome, this barrier of 
instinctive aversion, emotional hatred and prejudice than to correct opinions 
which are founded on defective or erroneous knowledge. 


False ideas and ignorance may be set aside by means of instruction, but 
emotional resistance never can. Nothing but an appeal to these hidden forces 


533 


will be effective here, and that appeal, can be made by scarcely any writer. 
Only the orator can hope to make it. 


A very striking proof of this 1s found in the fact that, though we had a 
bourgeois press which, in many cases, was well written and produced and had 
a circulation of millions of copies, 1t could not prevent the broad masses from 
becoming the implacable enemies of the bourgeois class. 


The deluge of papers and books published by intellectual circles year 
after year passed over the minds of millions of the lower social strata as water 
runs off a duck’s back. 


This proves that one of two things must be true: either that the matter 
offered in the bourgeois press was worthless or that it is impossible to reach 
the hearts of the broad masses by means of the written word alone. 


Of course, the latter is essentially true when the written material betrays 
as little psychological insight as hitherto. 


It is useless to object here, as certain big Berlin papers of German 
Nationalist tendencies have attempted to do, that this statement is refuted by the 
fact that the Marxists have exercised their greatest influence through their 
writings and especially through their principal book, published by Karl Marx. 


Seldom has a more superficial attempt been made to support an argument 
based on a false assumption. What gave Marxism its amazing influence over 
the broad masses was not that formal printed work which sets forth the Jewish 
system of ideas, but the tremendous oral propaganda carried on for years 
among the masses. 


Out of one hundred thousand German workers scarcely one hundred 
know Marx’s book. It has been studied much more in intellectual circles and 
especially by the Jews than by the genuine followers of the movement who 
come from the lower classes. 


That work was not written for the masses, but exclusively for the 
intellects behind the Jewish machine for conquering the world. 


The engine was heated with quite different fuel, namely, the press. What 
differentiates the bourgeois press from the Marxist press is that the latter is 
written by agitators, whereas the bourgeois press would like to carry on 
agitation by means of professional writers. 


534 


The Social Democratic editor of some local ‘rag’, who almost always 
comes directly from the meeting to the editorial offices of his paper, knows his 
job to his finger-tips, but the bourgeois scribbler who wishes to appeal to the 
broad masses, feels faint if their stench but reach his delicate nostrils and so he 
is naturally powerless to touch them by his writings. 


What won over millions of work-people to the Marxist cause was not the 
ex cathedra style of the Marxist writers, but the strenuous propaganda work 
done by tens of thousands of indefatigable agitators, from the ardent agitator 
down to the insignificant trade-union official, the trusty employee and the 
heckler. 


Furthermore, there were the hundreds of thousands of meetings where 
these orators, standing on tables in smoky public houses, hammered their ideas 
into the heads of the masses, thus acquiring an admirable psychological 
knowledge of the human material they had to deal with, and in this way they 
were enabled to select the best weapons for their assault on the citadel of 
public opinion. 


In addition to all this there were the gigantic mass-demonstrations with 
processions in which a hundred thousand persons took part. All this was 
calculated to give the petty-hearted individual the proud conviction that, though 
a poor worm he was at the same time an integral part of the great dragon 
before whose devastating breath the hated bourgeois world would one day be 
consumed in fire and flame, and the dictatorship of the proletariat would 
celebrate its final victory. 


This kind of propaganda influenced men in such a way as to give thema 
taste for reading the Social Democratic press and prepare their minds for its 
teaching. 


That press, in its turn, was a vehicle of the spoken, rather than of the 
written, word. Whereas in the bourgeois camp professors and learned writers, 
theorists and authors of} all kinds, made attempts at speaking, in the Marxist 
camp real speakers often made attempts at writing. 


This applies especially to the Jew who, on account of his dialectical 
skill and cunning in distorting the truth, assumes even as an author rather the 
guise of an eloquent agitator than of a creative writer. 


For this reason the bourgeois press (quite apart from the fact that it is 


335 


dominated by the Jew and has, therefore, no interest in enlightening the broad 
masses) is not capable of exercising the slightest influence on the opinions held 
by the great masses of our people. It is difficult to eradicate emotional 
prejudices, psychological bias, feelings, etc., and to put others in their place. 
Success depends here on conditions and influences which cannot be gauged. 


Only the orator who is gifted with the most sensitive insight can estimate 
all this. Even the time of day at which the speech is delivered has a decisive 
influence on its effectiveness. 


The same speech, made by the same orator and on the same theme, will 
have very different results according as it is delivered at ten o’clock in the 
forenoon, at three in the afternoon, or in the evening. 


When I first engaged in public speaking I arranged for meetings to take 
place in the forenoon and I remember particularly a demonstration that we held 
in the Miinchner-KindIl-Keller as a protest against the oppression of German 
minorities. 


That was the biggest hall then in Munich and the risk appeared very 
great. In order to make the hour of the meeting suitable for all the members of 
our Movement and the other people who might come, I fixed it for ten o’clock 
on a Sunday morning. 


The result was depressing, but it was very instructive. The hall was 
filled. The impression was profound, but the general atmosphere was chilly. 
Nobody got warmed up and I myself, as the speaker of the occasion, felt 
profoundly unhappy at the thought that I could not establish the slightest contact 
with my audience. 


I do not think I spoke worse than on other occasions, but the effect 
seemed absolutely negative. I left the hall ina very depressed frame of mind, 
but also feeling that I had gained a new experience. Later on I tried the same 
kind of experiment, but always with the same results. 


That was not to be wondered at. If one goes to a theatre to see a matinee 
performance and, then attends an evening performance of the same play, one is 
astounded at the difference in the impression created. 


A sensitive person and one who is capable of analysing his own 
reactions, will readily acknowledge that the impression created by the matinee 
performance is by no means as vivid as that gained at the evening performance. 


536 


The same is true of cinema productions. 


This latter point is important; for one may say of the theatre that perhaps 
in the afternoon the actor does not make the same effort as in the evening, but 
surely it cannot be said that the cinema is different in the afternoon from what it 
is at nine o’clock in the evening. 


In this case, the time of day exercises a distinct influence, just as a room 
exercises a distinct influence on me. 


There are rooms which leave one cold, for reasons which are difficult to 
explain. There are rooms which steadfastly prevent the creation of an 
atmosphere of any sort. Moreover, certain memories and traditions which are 
present as pictures in the human mind may have a determining influence on the 
impression produced. 


Thus a performance of Parsifal at Bayreuth will have an effect quite 
different from that which the same opera produces in any other part of the 
world. 


The mysterious charm of the House on the ‘Festival Heights’ in the old 
city of the Margrave can neither be equalled nor conjured up by external 
surroundings in any other place. 


In all these cases one is dealing with the problem of influencing the 
freedom of the human will, and that is true especially of meetings where there 
are men whose wills are opposed to the speaker and who must be brought 
round to a new way of thinking. 


In the morning and during the day it seems that the rower of the human 
will rebels most strongly against any attempt to impose upon it the will or 
opinion of another. On the other hand, in the evening it easily succumbs to the 
domination of a stronger will, because actually in such assemblies there is a 
contest between two opposing forces. 


The superior oratorical art of a man who has the compelling character of 
an apostle will succeed better in bringing round to a new way of thinking those 
who have, in the course of nature, been subjected to a weakening of their 
forces of resistance rather than in converting those who are in full possession 
of their volitional and intellectual faculties. 


The mysterious artificial dimness of the Catholic churches, the burning 


537 


candles, the incense, the thurible, etc. also serve this purpose. 


In this struggle between the orator and the opponent whom he must 
convert to his cause, the former gradually acquires an awareness of the 
psychological fitness of his propaganda weapons, which the writer seldom 
possesses. 


Generally speaking, the effect of the writer’s work helps rather to 
conserve, reinforce and deepen the foundations of opinions already formed. 


All really great historical revolutions were not produced by the written 
word; at most, they were accompanied by it. 


It is out of the question to think that the French Revolution could have 
been carried into effect by philosophising theories had it not been for an army 
of agitators headed by demagogues of a pronounced type who inflamed popular 
passion that had been already aroused, until that volcanic eruption finally 
broke out which convulsed the whole of Europe. 


The same ts true of the greatest revolutionary movement of our own day, 
namely, the Bolshevist Revolution in Russia, which was not the outcome of 
Lenin’s writings, but of the oratorical activities of innumerable agitators, great 
and small, who stirred up hatred. 


The masses of illiterate Russians were not fired to communist 
revolutionary enthusiasm by reading the theories of Karl Marx, but by the 
promises of paradise made to the people by thousands of agitators in the 
service of a single idea. It has always been so, and it always will be so. 


It is typical of our pig-headed intellectuals, who live apart from the 
practical world, to think that a writer must of necessity be superior in 
intelligence to an orator. 


This point of view was once effectively illustrated by a critique, 
published in a certain national paper which I have already mentioned, where it 
was stated that one 1s often disillusioned by reading the speech of an 
acknowledged great orator in print. 


That reminded me of another article which fell into my hands during the 
War. It dealt with the speeches of Lloyd George, who was then Minister of 
Munitions, and examined them in a painstaking way under the microscope of 
criticism. 


538 


The writer made the brilliant statement that these speeches showed 
inferior intelligence and learning and that, moreover, they were banal and 
commonplace productions. 


I happened to get hold of some of these speeches, published in pamphlet 
form, and had to laugh at the fact that an ordinary German quill-driver did not 
in the least understand these psychological masterpieces in the art of 
influencing the masses. 


This man criticised these speeches solely according to the impression 
they made on his own arrogant mind, whereas the one aim of the great British 
demagogue was to produce the maximum effect upon his audiences and, in the 
widest sense, on the lower classes throughout the length and breadth of, 
Britain. 


Looked at from this point of view, that British statesman’s speeches were 
most wonderful achievements, precisely because they showed an astounding 
knowledge of the mentality of the broad masses of the people. For that reason 
their effect was really overwhelming. 


Compare with them the futile stammerings of a Bethmann-Hollweg. On 
the surface the latter’s speeches were undoubtedly more intellectual, but they 
actually proved the man’s inability to speak to his own people, whom he did 
not understand. 


Nevertheless to the stupid average brain of the German writer, who had, 
of course amassed a great deal of learning, it seemed only natural to judge the 
speeches of the British statesman—which were made for the purpose of 
influencing the masses—by the impression which they made on his own mind, 
fossilised as it was by learning and to compare them to the brilliant but futile 
talk of the German statesman, which of course had a greater appeal for him. 


That the genius of Lloyd George was not only equal, but a thousandfold 
superior to that of a Bethmann-Hollweg, is proved by the fact that he found for 
his speeches that form and expression which opened the hearts of his people to 
him and made that people carry out his will absolutely. 


The primitive quality of these speeches, the originality of his 
expressions, his choice of clear and simple illustration, prove the superior 
political capacity of the British spokesman. 


One must never judge the speech of a statesman to his people by the 


539 


impression which it leaves on the mind of a university professor, but by the 
effect it produces on the public, and this is the sole criterion of the orator’s 
genius. 


The astonishing development of our Movement, which was created out 
of nothing a few years ago and 1s to-day singled out for persecution by all the 
internal and external enemies of our nation, must be attributed to the constant 
recognition and practical application of those principles. 


However important the literature of the Movement may be, it is, 
nevertheless, at present more important as a means of providing leaders of the 
upper, as well as of the lower grades, with a uniform course of instruction, 
than for the purpose of converting antagonistic masses. 


It was only in very rare cases that a convinced and devoted Social 
Democrat or Communist was induced to gain an insight into our 
Weltanschauung or to study a criticism of his own by procuring and reading 
one of our pamphlets or even one of our books. 


Even a newspaper is rarely read if it does not bear the stamp of party 
opinions. Moreover, the reading of newspapers helps little, because the 
general picture given by a single number of a newspaper is so confused and 
produces such a fragmentary impression that it really does not influence the 
occasional reader. 


Where a man has to count his pennies, it cannot be assumed that, 
exclusively for the purpose of being objectively informed, he will become a 
regular reader or subscriber to a paper which opposes his views. Scarcely one 
man in ten thousand will do this. 


Only after he has already joined a movement will he regularly read the 
party organ of that movement, more especially for the purpose of keeping 
himself informed of what is happening in the movement. 


It is quite different with the ‘spoken’ leaflet. Especially if it be 
distributed gratis it will be taken up by one person or another, all the more 
willingly if its display title refers to a question about which everybody is 
talking at the moment. 


Perhaps someone after having read through such a leaflet more or less 
carefully, will have his eyes opened to the existence of new points of view, a 
new mental attitude, and even a new movement. 


540 


But, at best, this will only serve as a slight impulse and will not 
establish a firm conviction, because the leaflet can do no more than arouse 
interest and attract attention, and can only be effective if the reader 
subsequently gains more definite and thorough information, the only road to 
which is via the mass meeting. 


Mass meetings are also necessary for the reason that, in attending them, 
the individual who, about to join the new movement, feels himself alone and is 
easily scared of acting singularly acquires for the first time the feeling of a 
great community, which has a strengthening and encouraging effect on most 
people. 


The same man will, as a member of a company or battalion, surrounded 
by his companions, march with a lighter heart to the attack than if he had to 
march alone. In the crowd he feels himself in some way sheltered, though in 
reality there are a thousand arguments against such a feeling. 


Mass demonstrations on a grand scale not only reinforce the will of the 
individual, but they draw him still closer to the movement and help to create an 
esprit de corps. 


The man who appears as the first representative of a new doctrine in his 
place of business or in his factory is bound to have to face obstacles and has 
need of that strength which comes from the consciousness that he is a member 
of a great community, and only a mass demonstration can impress upon him the 
greatness of this community. 


If, on leaving the shop or mammoth factory, in which he feels very small 
indeed, he enters a cast assembly for the first time and sees around him 
thousands upon thousands of men who hold the same opinions; 


- if, while still seeking his way, he is gripped by the force of mass 
suggestion which comes from the excitement and enthusiasm of three or four 
thousand other men in whose midst he finds himself; and 


- if the manifest success and the consensus of thousands confirm the truth 
and justice of the new teaching and for the first time raise in his mind doubt as 
to the truth of the opinions held by himself up to now, then he submits himself 
to the fascination of what we call mass suggestion. 


The will, the yearning and indeed the strength of thousands of people are 
in each individual. A man who enters such a meeting in doubt and hesitation 


541 


leaves it inwardly fortified; he has become a member of a community. 


The National Socialist Movement should never forget this, and it should 
never allow itself to be influenced by those bourgeois blockhead, who think 
they know everything, but who have foolishly gambled away a great State, 
together with their own existence and the supremacy of their own class. 


They are extraordinarily clever, they can do everything, and they know 
everything, but there was one thing which they failed to do, namely, to save the 
German people from falling into the clutches of Marxism. 


In that they failed miserably and their present high opinion of their 
prowess is mere conceit, for their pride and their stupidity are fruits of the 
same tree. 


If these people try to disparage the importance of the spoken word to- 
day, they do it only because they realise—God be praised—how futile all their 
own speechifying has been. 


542 


543 


544 

