There are two considerations which induce me to make a special 
analysis of Germany’s attitude towards Russia. 


These are, that firstly, this may prove to be the most important problem 
which German foreign policy has to solve, and secondly; this problem is, at the 
same time, the touchstone which will test the political capacity of the young 
National Socialist Movement for clear thinking and adopting the right course of 
action. 


I must confess that the second consideration has often been a source of 
great anxiety to me. The members of our Movement are not recruited from 
circles which are habitually indifferent to public affairs, but mostly from 
among men who hold more or less extreme views. 


Such being the case, it is only natural that their understanding of foreign 
politics should at first labour under the prejudices and inadequate knowledge 
of those circles to which they formerly belonged by virtue of their political and 
ideological opinions. 


This is true not only of the men who come to us from the Left. On the 
contrary, however harmful may have been the kind of teaching they formerly 
received in regard to these problems, in very many cases this was, in part, at 
least, counterbalanced by the sound and natural instincts which they retained. 


In such cases it is only necessary to substitute a better teaching in place 
of the earlier influences, in order to transform the instinct of self-preservation 
and other sound instinct into valuable assets. 


On the other hand, it is much more difficult to train a man to see clearly 
in political matters, if his previous education in this field was no less devoid 
of sense and logic, but if, in addition, he has sacrificed the last residue of his 
natural instincts on the altar of objective thinking. 


It is particularly difficult to induce such representatives of our so-called 
intellectual circles to adopt a realistic and logical attitude in protecting their 
own interests and the interests of their nation in its relations with foreign 
countries. 


723 


Their minds are overladen with a large burden of prejudices and absurd 
ideas and, as if this were not enough, they have lost or renounced every instinct 
of self-preservation. Against these men the National Socialist Movement has to 
fight a hard battle, too, and the struggle is all the harder because, though very 
often they are utterly incompetent, they are so self-conceited that, without the 
slightest justification, they even look, down on others whose opinions are more 
sound. 


These arrogant snobs, who pretend to know better than other people, are 
wholly incapable of calmly and coolly analysing a problem land of weighing 
the pros and cons, which is the necessary preliminary to any decision or action 
taken in the field of foreign politics. 


Since these particular circles are, at present, beginning to deflect our 
foreign policy in the most disastrous way from protecting the real interests of 
our people, in order to serve their own fantastic ideologies, I feel it incumbent 
upon me to give my own followers a clear exposition of the most important 
problem in our foreign policy, namely, our relations with Russia. 


I shall deal with it as thoroughly as may be necessary to make it 
generally understood and as far as the limits of this book permit. 


Let me begin by making the following general remarks. 


If, by foreign policy, we mean the establishment of relations between any 
nation and the other nations on this earth, we must admit that the establishment 
of such relations must depend on certain definite facts. 


Moreover, we, as National Socialists, must lay down the following 
principle as regards the essential characteristics of the foreign policy pursued 
by a volkisch State. 


The first object of the foreign policy of a volkisch State is to safeguard 
the existence on this earth of the race which has been organised as an entity by 
this State, by the establishment of a healthy, enduring and natural proportion 
between the size and the growth of the population, on the one hand, and the 
area and resources of its territory, on the other. 


The only proportion which can be termed ‘healthy’ is one in which the 
resources of the soil are sufficient, to guarantee the nation’s food-supply. 


Any condition which falls short of this is none the less unhealthy for the 


724 


fact that it may endure for centuries or even thousands of years. 


Sooner or later, this lack of proportion must of necessity lead to the 
decline; or even annihilation of the people concerned. Only a sufficiently large 
space on this earth can assure the independent existence of a people. 


The extent of the territory necessary for the accommodation of the 
national population must not be estimated in the light of present exigencies or 
even of its agricultural productivity in relation to the number of the population. 


In the first volume of this book, under the heading, ‘Germany’s Policy of 
Alliances before the War’, I have already explained that the territorial 
dimensions of a State are of importance not only as the immediate source of the 
nation’s food-supply, but also from the military standpoint. 


Once a people have become self-supporting as a result of the adequate 
area of its territory, the next consideration is how to take the necessary steps to 
safeguard his territory. 


National security depends on the political and military strength of a State 
and this, in turn, depends on its geographical situation looked at from the 
military point of view. 


Thus the German nation could assure its own future only by becoming a 
World Power. For nearly two thousand years the defence of our national 
interests (as we ought to describe our more or less successful foreign political 
activities) was a matter of world history. 


We ourselves have witnessed this, since the gigantic international 
struggle of the German people for their existence on this earth, and it was 
carried out in such a way that it has become known in the annals of history as 
the World War. 


When Germany entered this struggle it was presumed that she was a 
World Power. 


I say ‘presumed’ because in reality she was no such thing. If, in 1914, 
there had been a different proportion between the German population and its 
territorial area, Germany would really have been a World Power and, leaving 
other factors out of count, the War would have ended in her favour. 


It is neither my task nor my intention here to discuss what would have 


725 


happened if certain conditions had been fulfilled, but I feel it absolutely 

incumbent on me to depict the present situation in its true light, and to point out 
its weaknesses which give cause for alarm, in order to make at least those who 
belong to the National Socialist Movement aware of what steps must be taken. 


Germany is not a World Power to-day. Even though our present military 
weakness could be overcome, we would still have no claim to be called a 
World Power. 


What importance has any State on earth in which the proportion between 
the size of the population and the territorial area is so hopelessly unsatisfactory 
as in the present German Reich? 


In an epoch in which the world is being gradually portioned out among 
States, many of whom embrace almost whole continents, one cannot speak of a 
World Power in referring to a State whose political mother-country is limited 
to a territorial area of barely five-hundred-thousand square kilometres. 


Looked at purely from the territorial point of view, the area of the 
German Reich is insignificant in comparison with that of so-called World 
Powers. 


It would be wrong to cite the case of Britain for the purpose of 
disproving this statement, because Great Britain, the mother-country, is in 
reality the great metropolis of the British World Empire, which covers almost 
one-fourth of the earth’s surface. Among the giant States we must also consider 
the United States of America, Russia and China. These are enormous 
territories, some of which have more than ten times the area of the present 
German Reich. 


France must also be ranked among these States. Not only because she is 
constantly increasing the strength of her army by recruiting coloured troops 
from the population of her gigantic empire, but also because, from the racial 
point of view, she is rapidly becoming Negroid to such an extent that we can 
actually speak of the formation of an African state on European soil. 


The contemporary colonial policy of France cannot be compared with 
that of Germany in the past. If France develops along the lines it has taken in 
our day, and should that development continue for the next three hundred years, 
all traces of French blood will finally be lost in the formation of a Euro- 
African mulatto state. 


726 


This would represent a formidable and compact colonial territory 
stretching from the Rhine to the Congo, inhabited by an inferior race which had 
developed through a slow and steady process of bastardization. In this, French 
colonial policy differs from the policy followed by the old Germany. 


The former German colonial policy consisted in half measures as did 
almost everything undertaken at that time It did not aim at the acquisition of 
new territory for the settlement of German nationals nor did it make any 
attempt (criminal though this might have been) to reinforce the power of the 
Reich through the enlistment of black troops. 


The Askari units in German East Africa represented a small and hesitant 
step in this direction, but in reality they served only for the defence of the 
colony itself. 


The idea of transporting black troops to a European theatre of war— 
apart entirely from the practical impossibility of doing so during the World 
War—was never entertained as a proposal to be carried out under favourable 
conditions; whereas the French, on the contrary, always looked on this as the 
underlying motive and justification for their colonial activities. 


Thus we find in the world to-day a number of powerful States which are 
not only superior to Germany as regards the numerical strength of their 
population, but which also possess in territorial area the chief support of their 
political power. 


Never has the position of the German Reich, judged from the point of 
view of its area and the size of its population, been so unfavourable in 
comparison with other States of whilom importance, as at the beginning of its 
history two thousand years ago and again to-day. 


In that other era we were a young people and we stormed a world of 
decadent giant States, the last of which was Rome, to whose overthrow we 
contributed. To-day we find ourselves in a world of great and powerful States 
among which our own Reich is steadily losing in significance. We must always 
face this bitter truth with clear and calm minds. We must study the area and 
population of the German Reich in relation to the other States and compare 
them throughout the centuries. 


Then, I know, everyone will realise to his consternation that what I said 
at the outset is true, namely, that Germany is no longer a World Power, whether 


27 


she be strong or weak from the military point of view. 


There is no comparison between our position and that of the other States 
throughout the world, and this is to be attributed to the ill-fated foreign policy 
pursued by our governments, to the fact that our foreign policy failed 
absolutely to pursue a definite aim with unswerving perseverance and also to 
the fact that we have lost every sound impulse and instinct for self- 
preservation. 


If the National Socialist Movement is to be credited by posterity with 
having fulfilled a great mission on behalf of our nation it must fully recognise 
the serious nature of our actual position in the world, and struggle bravely and 
doggedly against the aimlessness and inefficiency which have hitherto led the 
German people to pursue a false course as regards foreign policy. 


Without respect for ‘tradition,’ and without any preconceived notions, the 
Movement must find the courage to organise our national forces, and set them 
on the path which will lead them beyond the confines of the ‘living space’ 
which is theirs to-day, to the acquisition of new territory. 


Thus the Movement will save the German people from the danger of 
perishing or of becoming slaves in the service of any other people. 


Our Movement must seek to abolish the present lack of proportion 
between our population and the area of our national territory, considered as the 
source of our maintenance or as a basis of political power. 


It ought also to strive to abolish the contrast between past history and the 
hopelessly powerless position in which we are to-day. 


In striving to do so, it must bear in mind the fact that we are the 
custodians of the highest form of civilisation on this earth, that we have a 
correspondingly high duty and that we shall fulfil this duty only if we inspire 
the German people with race-consciousness, so that they will concern 
themselves not merely with the breeding of dogs, horses and cats, but also care 
for the purity of their own blood. 


When I say that the foreign policy hitherto followed by Germany has 
been aimless and ineffectual, the proof of my statement will be found in the 
actual failure of this policy. 


Were our people intellectually backward, or did they lack courage, the 


728 


final results of their efforts could not have been worse than those of which we 
are witnesses to-day. We must not allow ourselves to be misled by 
developments during the last decades before the War, because we must not 
measure the strength of a State taken by itself, but in comparison with other 
States. 


Now, this comparison shows that not only had the strength of the other 
States increased more steadily than that of Germany, but that in the long run it 
proved to be greater, so that, despite her apparent prosperity, Germany 
gradually dropped further behind in the race with other States. 


In short, the difference in size increases much to our detriment. 


Even in the size of our population we lagged behind, and kept on losing 
ground. Since the courage of our people is unsurpassed by that of any other in 
the world and their sacrifice in defence of their existence greater than that of 
any other nation, their failure can be ascribed only to the false way in which 
this sacrifice was used. 


If, in this connection, we examine the chain of political vicissitudes 
through which our people have passed during more than a thousand years, 
recalling the innumerable struggles and wars and investigating the results as 
we have them before us to-day, we must confess that from the sea of blood only 
three phenomena have emerged which we can consider as the lasting fruits of a 
definite foreign policy, or, in fact of a policy at all. 


These were, firstly, the colonization of the Ostmark, which was mainly 
the work of the Bavarian secondly, the conquest and settlement of the territory 
east of the Elbe; and thirdly, the organisation of the Brandenburg-Prussian 
State, which was the work of the Hohenzollerns and which became the model 
for, and the nucleus of, a new Reich. An instructive lesson for the future! 


These first two great successes of our foreign policy turned out to be the 
most enduring. Without them our people would play no part in the world to- 
day. 


These achievements were the first, and unfortunately the only, successful 
attempts to establish a satisfactory balance between cur increasing population 
and the area of our country, and we must regard it as a fatal mistake that our 
German historians have never correctly appreciated these two outstanding 
achievements which were of such significance for the following generations. 


729 


On the other hand, they wrote panegyrics on many other things, on 
heroism displayed in the pursuit of a fantastic aim and on innumerable 
adventurous campaigns and wars, instead of realising that these latter had no 
significance in relation to the main course of our national development. 


The third great success achieved by our political activity was the 
establishment of the Prussian State and the development of a particular State 
concept which grew out of this. 


To the same source we must attribute the organisation of the instinct of 
national self-preservation and self-defence in the German Army, an 
achievement which suited the modem world. 


The transformation of the idea of self-defence on the part of the 
individual into the duty of national defence is derived from the Prussian State 
and the new State concept which it introduced. 


It would be impossible to over-estimate the importance of this process. 
The German nation, which, as a result of racial disintegration, had become the 
victim of exaggerated individualism, partially regained, through the 
disciplinary training of the Prussian Army, its capacity for organisation. 


What other nations still retain of the original herd instinct, we regained, 
in some measure, for the national community by the artificial means of military 
training. 


Consequently, the abolition of compulsory national military service— 
which may have no significance for dozens of other nations—had fatal 
consequences for us. 


Let ten generations of Germans be without the corrective and educative 
effect of military training and delivered over to the evil effects of their racial 
and, consequently, ideological disintegration and our people would lose the 
last relics of an independent existence on this earth. 


The German intellect could then make its contribution to civilisation only 
through the medium of individuals living under the rule of foreign nations and 
its origin would remain unknown, while acting as the fertilizing manure of 
civilisation, until the last residue of Nordic-Aryan blood in us had become 
corrupted or extinct. 


It is a remarkable fact that the real political successes achieved by our 


730 


people during their millennial struggles are better appreciated and understood 
by our adversaries than by ourselves. 


Even to-day we wax enthusiastic about an act of heroism which robbed 
our people of millions of their best racial stock and turned out completely 
fruitless in the end. 


The distinction between the real political successes which our people 
have achieved in the course of their long history and the futile aims for which 
the blood of the nation has been shed is of supreme importance in determining 
our policy now and in the future. 


We National Socialists must never allow ourselves to join in the huzza- 
ing patriotism of our contemporary bourgeois circles. 


It would be fatal for us to look upon the developments immediately 
before the War as in any way binding us in the choice of our own course. 


We can recognise no obligation devolving on us which may have its 
origin in any historical phase of the nineteenth century. 


In contradiction to the policy of those who represented that period, we 
must take our stand on the principles already mentioned in regard to foreign 
policy, namely, the necessity for bringing our territorial area into accord with 
the number of our population. 


From the past we can learn only one lesson, and this is that the aim 
which is to be pursued in our political conduct must be twofold, namely, (1) 
the acquisition of territory as the objective of our foreign policy and (2) the 
establishment of a new, uniform and ideologically secure foundation as the 
objective of our political activities at home. 


I shall deal briefly with the question of how far our territorial aims are 
justified according to ethical and moral principles. 


This is all the more necessary here because, in our so-called volkisch 
circles, there are all kinds of smooth-tongued phrase-mongers who try to 
persuade the German people that the great aim of their foreign policy ought to 
be to right the wrongs of 1918, while at the same time they consider it 
incumbent on them to assure the whole world of the brotherly spirit and 
sympathy of the German people. 


731 


In regard to this point I should like to make the following preliminary 
statement. To demand that the 1914 frontiers should be restored is a glaring 
political absurdity that is fraught with such consequences as to make the claim 
itself appear criminal. 


The confines of the Reich as they existed in 1914 were thoroughly 
illogical, because they were not really complete, in the sense of including all 
the members of the German people, nor were they reasonable, in view of the 
geographical exigencies of military defence. 


They were not the outcome of a well-considered political plan, they 
were temporary frontiers established in virtue of a political struggle that had 
not been fought to a finish, and indeed they were partly the chance result of 
circumstances. 


One would be equally justified (and in many cases better justified) in 
selecting any other year in our history and in demanding that the objective of 
our foreign policy should be the re-establishment of the conditions then 
existing. 


The demands I have mentioned are quite characteristic of our bourgeois 
compatriots, who, in such matters, take no politically productive thought for the 
future. 


They live only in the past and indeed only in the immediate past, for even 
their retrospect does not go back beyond their own times. 


The law of inertia binds them to the present order of things, leading them 
to oppose every attempt to change this. Their opposition, however, never takes 
the form of any kind of active defence, it is merely passive obstinacy. 


Therefore, we must regard it as quite natural that the political horizon of 
such people should not reach beyond 1914. In proclaiming that the aim of their 
political activities is to have the frontiers of that time restored, they only help 
to close up the rifts that are already becoming apparent in the league which our 
enemies have formed against us. 


Only on these grounds can we explain the fact that eight years after a 
world conflagration in which a number of allied belligerents had aspirations 
and aims that were partly in conflict with one another, the coalition of the 
victors still remains more or less solid. 


732 


Each of those States in its turn profited by the German collapse. In the 
fear which they all felt of our strength, the Great Powers maintained a mutual 
silence about their individual feelings of envy and enmity towards one another. 


They felt that to carry into effect a general process of expropriation of 
the Reich’s possessions would be the surest guarantee against the possibility of 
our resurgence. 


A bad conscience and fear of the strength of our people made up the 
durable cement which has held the members of that league together, even up to 
the present moment; nor have they been deceived by us. 


Inasmuch as our bourgeoisie sets up the restoration of the 1914 frontiers 
as the aim of Germany’s political programme, each member of the enemy 
coalition who might otherwise be inclined to withdraw from it, clings to the 
coalition for fear that he might, having lost the support of his allies, become an 
isolated object of attack. 


Each individual State feels itself endangered and threatened by this 
battle-cry, and that battle-cry itself is absurd, for the two following reasons: 
Firstly, because there is no available means of extricating it from the twilight 
atmosphere of club meetings and transforming it into something real. 


Secondly, because even if it could be carried into effect the result would 
be so futile that it would not be worth while to risk the blood of our people 
once again for such a purpose. 


There can be scarcely any doubt whatsoever that only through bloodshed 
could we achieve the restoration of the 1914 frontiers. 


One must have the simple mind of a child to believe that the revision of 
the Versailles Treaty can be obtained by indirect means and by beseeching the 
clemency of the victors—apart from the fact that for this we should need a 
Talleyrand, and there is no Talleyrand among us. 


Fifty per cent of our politicians are artful dodgers who are without 
character and hostile to our people, while the other fifty per cent is made up of 
well-meaning, harmless, and complaisant incompetents. 


Moreover, times have changed since the Congress of Vienna, it is no 
longer princes or their courtesans who haggle and bargain about State 
frontiers, but the inexorable cosmopolitan Jew who fights for dominion over 


733 


the nations. The sword is the only means whereby a nation can ward off that 
strangle-hold. 


Only when the concentrated might of rampant patriotic fervour is 
organised can it defy the menace of international enslavement of the nations. 
Such a course of action entails, and always will entail, bloodshed. If we are 
once convinced that the future of Germany calls for supreme effort, then, apart 
from considerations of political prudence, we are in duty bound to set up an 
aim that is worthy of that effort and to struggle to achieve it. 


The 1914 frontiers are of no significance for the future of the German 
nation. They did not serve to protect us in the past, nor do they offer any 
guarantee for our defence in the future. 


These frontiers do not help the German people to achieve internal unity, 
nor do they serve to safeguard its food-supplies. 


From the military standpoint these frontiers are neither strategically good 
nor even Satisfactory. 


Finally, they cannot serve to improve our present position in relation to 
other World Powers, or rather in relation to the real World Powers. 


They will not lessen the discrepancy between ourselves and Great 
Britain, nor help us to rival the United States its size. Not only that, but they 
would not serve to lessen substantially the importance of France in 
international politics. 


One thing alone is certain, namely, the attempt to restore the frontiers of 
1914, even if it proved successful, would lead to a further draining of the 
blood of our nation to such an extent that no virile men would be left to execute 
the revolutions and perform the deeds necessary in order to assure the future 
existence of the nation. 


On the contrary, under the intoxicating influence of such a superficial 
success further aims would be renounced, all the more so because so-called 
‘national honour’ would seem to be vindicated and new ports would be 
opened, at least for a certain time, to our commercial development. 


In the face of all this we National Socialists must adhere firmly to the 
aim that we have set for our foreign policy, namely, that the German people 
must be guaranteed that living-space to which it is entitled, and only in 


734 


pursuance of such an aim can the shedding of the blood of our people be 
justified in the eyes of God, and future generations of Germans. 


God—because we are sent into this world to struggle for our daily 
bread, as creatures to whom nothing is donated and who must be able to win 
and maintain their position as lords of the earth by virtue of their own 
intelligence and courage. 


Germans—in the eyes of further generations of Germans, since the blood 
of no German should be spilt unless it be to guarantee the lives of a thousand 
others yet unborn. 


The territory on which our German peasants will one day be able to rear 
sturdy sons will justify the sacrifice of the lives of sons of peasants to-day, and 
though the statesmen responsible for this sacrifice may be persecuted by their 
contemporaries, posterity will absolve them from the charge of having been 
guilty of bloodshed and of sacrificing the nation. Here I must protest sharply 
against those volkisch scribblers who pretend that such territorial extension 
would be a ‘violation of the sacred rights of man’ and accordingly attack it in 
their literary effusions. 


One never knows what are the hidden forces behind the activities of such 
persons. But it is certain that the confusion which they provoke suits the game 
our enemies are playing against our nation and is in accordance with their 
wishes. 


By the conception of this attitude such scribblers contribute in criminal 
fashion to weaken from within and to destroy our people’s will to defend their 
own vital interests by the only effective means that can be used for that 
purpose, for no nation on earth possesses a square yard of territory by decree 
of a higher Will and by virtue of a higher Right. 


The German frontiers are the outcome of chance and are only temporary 
frontiers that have been established as the result of political struggles which 
took place at various times. 


The same is also true of the frontiers which demarcate the territories in 
which other nations live. 


Only an imbecile could look on the physical geography of the globe as 
fixed and unchangeable. Actually, it represents only an apparent interval in a 
continual evolutionary process due to the certain action of the formidable 


TDS 


forces of Nature, and is liable to destruction and transformation to-morrow 
through still more formidable forces. 


So, too, in the lives of the nations the confines of their ‘living space’ are 
liable to change. State frontiers are established by human beings and may be 
altered by human beings. 


The fact that a nation has acquired an enormous territorial area is no 
reason why other nations should for ever acknowledge its right to that territory. 


At most, the possession of such territory is a proof of the might of the 
conqueror and the weakness of those who submit to him and this might alone is 


right. 


If the German people is cramped in an insufficient living space and is, 
for that reason, faced with a hopeless future, it is not by the law of Destiny, and 
the refusal to accept such a situation is by no means a violation of Destiny’s 
laws. 


Just as no Higher Power has allotted more territory to other nations than 
to the German nation, an unjust distribution of territory cannot constitute an 
offence against such a Power. 


The land in which we now live was not a gift bestowed by Heaven on 
our forefathers, but was conquered by them at the risk of their lives. 


Thus, now, in future our people will not acquire territory and with it the 
means of subsistence as a favour at the hands of any other nation, but will have 
to win it by the power of a triumphant sword. To-day we are all convinced of 
the necessity for regulating our position with regard to France; but our success 
here will be ineffectual in the vain if the general aims of our foreign policy 
stop at that. 


It can have significance for us only if it serves to cover our flank in the 
struggle for that extension of territory which is necessary for the existence of 
our people in Europe, for colonial acquisitions will not solve that question. 


It can be solved only by the acquisition of such territory for the 
settlement of our people as will extend the area of the mother-country and 
thereby not only keep the newly-settled population in close touch with the 
parent-country, but will guarantee the entire territory the enjoyment of those 
advantages accruing from its total size. 


736 


The vdlkisch Movement must not play the advocate for ether nations, but 
beg the protagonist of its own nation. Otherwise it would he superfluous and, 
above all, it would have no right to clamour against the past, for it would then 
be repeating the action of the past. 


The old German policy suffered from having been determined by 
dynastic considerations, the new German policy must not adopt the 
sentimentally cosmopolitan attitude of volkisch circles. 


Above all, we must riot form a police guard for the famous ‘small 
oppressed nations,’ but we must be the soldiers of the German nation. 


We National Socialists must go still further. The right to territory may 
become a duty when a great nation seems destined to go under unless its 
territory be extended, and that is particularly true when the nation in question is 
not a handful of Negroes, but the Germanic mother of all those who have given 
culture to the modern world. 


Germany will either become a World Power or will not continue to 
exist, but in order to become a World Power she needs that territorial area 
which would give her the necessary importance to-day and assure the existence 
of her citizens. 


Therefore, we National Socialists have purposely broken away from the 
line of conduct followed by pre-war Germany in foreign policy. 


We are beginning at the point at which our ancestors left off six hundred 
years ago. 


We are putting a stop to the eternal German trek towards Southern and 
Western Europe and are turning our eyes towards the lands that lie to the east 
of us. 


We are abandoning, once and for all, the colonial and commercial policy 
of pre-war days and are making a start upon the future policy of territorial 
expansion, but when we speak of new territory in Europe to-day we must think 
principally of Russia and the border states under her rule. Destiny itself seems 
to point the way for us here. In delivering Russia over to Bolshevism, Fate 
robbed the Russian people of that intellectual class which had once created the 
Russian State and was the guarantee for its existence. 


The Russian State as such was not the outcome of the ability of the Slav 


737 


to establish a constitution, but rather a marvellous example of the constructive 
political activity of the Germanic element in a race of inferior worth. 


This is the way in which many mighty empires throughout the world 
were created. More than once inferior races with Germanic organisers and 
rulers as their leaders became formidable States and continued to exist as long 
as the racial nucleus which had originally created the State remained. 


For centuries, Russia has lived on this Germanic nucleus of its governing 
classes, but to-day this nucleus has been practically exterminated. The Jew has 
taken its place. 


Just as it is impossible for the Russian, on his own, to shake off the 
Jewish yoke so, too, it is impossible for the Jew to keep this mighty State in 
existence for any lengthy period of time. 


He himself is by no means an organising element, but rather a ferment of 
decomposition. This colossal empire in the East is ripe for dissolution, and the 
end of the Jewish domination in Russia will also be the end of Russia as a 
State. 


We are chosen by Destiny to be the witnesses of a catastrophe which 
will afford the most striking confirmation of the volkisch theory of race. 


It is our task, and the mission of the National Socialist Movement, to 
develop in our people that political mentality which will enable them to 
realise that the aim which they must set themselves in future could not find 
fulfilment in the glorious enthusiasm of a victorious campaign fought with the 
ardour of an Alexander the Great. 


That the Jew should declare himself bitterly hostile to such a policy is 
only natural, for the Jew knows better than any other what the adoption of this 
line of conduct will mean for his own future. 


That fact alone ought to teach all genuine nationalists that this new 
orientation is the right one, but, unfortunately, the reverse 1s the case. 


Not only among the members of the German National Party, but also in 
purely volkisch circles, violent opposition is being raised against this Eastern 
European policy, and in connection with that opposition, as in all such cases, 
the authority of great men is cited. 


738 


The spirit of Bismarck is evoked in defence of a policy which is as 
stupid as it is impossible, and is in the highest degree detrimental to the 
German people. 


They say that Bismarck attached great importance to the maintenance of 
good relations with Russia. To a certain extent, that is true, but they quite forget 
to add that he laid equal stress on the importance of good relations with Italy, 
for example. 


Indeed, the same Herr von Bismarck once concluded an alliance with 
Italy so that he might more easily settle accounts with Austria. 


Why is this policy not continued to-day? The answer will be to the effect 
that the Italy of to-day is not the Italy of that time. 


Well then, honourable sirs, permit me to remind you that the Russia of to- 
day is no longer the Russia of that time. 


Bismarck never dreamt of laying down a political course of action 
which, from the tactical point of view, was to hold good for all time. He was 
too much the master of the hour to bind himself in that way. 


The question, therefore, ought not to be what did Bismarck do then, but 
rather what would he do to-day. 


And that question is much easier to answer. His political sagacity would 
never allow him to ally himself with a State that is doomed to disappear. 


Moreover, Bismarck looked upon the colonial and commercial policy of 
his time with mixed feelings, because at first, his chief concern was to find the 
surest way of consolidating and internally strengthening the state system which 
he himself had created. 


That was the sole reason why, at that time, he welcomed Russian 
protection in the rear, which gave hima free hand for his activities in the West, 
but what was then advantageous to Germany would now be detrimental. 


As early as 1920-21, the young National Socialist Movement was 
slowly, beginning to make itself felt in the political world and was spoken of 
in various circles as the movement for the liberation of the German nation. At 
that time it was approached from various quarters with the object of 
establishing definite relations with the liberationist movements in other 


739 


countries. 


This was quite in keeping with the much-advertised ‘League of 
Oppressed Nations.’ 


The persons concerned were, for the most part, representatives of some 
of the Balkan States and also of Egypt and India. They always impressed me as 
loquacious gentlemen who gave themselves airs, but had no real backing. 


Not a few Germans, however, especially in the nationalist camp, 
allowed themselves to be taken in by these pompous Orientals, and in the 
person of some Indian or Egyptian student they believed at once that they were 
face to face with a ‘representative’ of India or Egypt. 


They did not realise that, in most cases, they were dealing with persons 
who had no backing and who were not authorised to conclude any sort of 
agreement whatsoever, so that the practical result of any contact with such 
individuals was nil, unless one chose to enter the time spent thus as a dead 
loss. 


I was always on my guard against these attempts, not only because I had 
something better to do than to waste weeks in such sterile ‘discussions,’ but 
also because I believed that even if one were dealing with authorised 
representatives of such nations, the whole affair would be bound to turn out 
futile, if not positively harmful. 


Even in peace-time it was lamentable enough that the German policy of 
alliances, because it had no active and aggressive aims in view, ended ina 
defensive association of antiquated States which, as far as history was 
concerned were already on the retired list. 


There was little to be said either for the alliance with Austria or for that 
with Turkey. While the greatest military and industrial States of the earth had 
joined together in a league for purposes of active aggression, a few old and 
effete States were got together, and with this antique bric-a-brac an attempt 
was made to face an active world-coalition. 


Germany has had to pay dearly for that mistaken foreign policy and yet 
not dearly enough to prevent our incorrigible visionaries from falling into the 
same error again, for the attempt to bring about the disarmament of the all- 
powerful victorious States through a ‘League of Oppressed Nations’ is not only 
ridiculous, but disastrous. 


740 


It is disastrous because in that way the attention of the German people is 
again being diverted from real possibilities, which they abandon for the sake 
of fanciful and fruitless hopes and illusions. 


The German of to-day is like a drowning man who clutches at any straw. 
At the same time many of the people who are misled in this way are otherwise 
highly educated. 


Whenever some will-o’-the-wisp of a fantastic hope appears these 
people immediately pursue it. No matter whether it be a League of Oppressed 
Nations, a League of Nations, or some other fantastic invention, thousands of 
ingenuous souls will always be found to believe in it. 


I well remember the childishly incomprehensible hope that Britain’s 
downfall in India was imminent, which was cherished by volkisch circles in 
the years 1920-21. 


A few Asiatic mountebank, who may even have been sincere ‘champions 
of Indian freedom,’ were then at a loose end in Europe and succeeded in 
inspiring otherwise quite reasonable people with the fixed notion that the 
British World Empire, of which India was the hub, was just about to collapse 
there. 


They never realised that this was wishful thinking, nor did they stop to 
think how absurd their hopes were, for inasmuch as they expected the end of 
the British Empire and of Britain’s power to follow the collapse of its 
dominion over India, they themselves admitted that India was of paramount 
importance to Britain. 


It is more than probable that this vital question was not in the nature of a 
mystery known only to the prophets of German volkisch circles, but also to 
those in whose hands lay the shaping of British history. It is simply puerile to 
suppose that in Britain itself the importance of India for the British Empire was 
not adequately appreciated. 


It is a proof of failure to have learned a lesson from the World War and 
of a thorough misunderstanding and inability to recognise the quality of Anglo- 
Saxon determination, if anyone imagines that Britain would let India go without 
first putting forth the last ounce of her strength in a struggle to hold it. 


Moreover, it shows how complete is the ignorance prevailing in 
Germany as to the manner in which Britain administers her Empire and 


741 


permeates it with her spirit. 


Britain will never lose India unless her administrative machinery 
becomes corrupt as a result of racial contamination (which 1s at present 
entirely out of the question in India), or unless she is overcome by the sword of 
some powerful enemy. Indian risings will never bring this about. 


We Germans have had sufficient experience to know how hard it is to 
overcome Britain, and apart from all this, I as a Teuton, would far rather see 
India under British rule than under that of any other nation. 


The hopes founded on a legendary rising in Egypt were just as 
chimerical. The ‘Holy War’ may give our German nincompoops the pleasing 
illusion that others are now prepared to shed their blood for them. 


Indeed this cowardly speculation is almost always the father of such 
hopes, but in actual fact the ‘Holy War’ would soon be brought to a sanguinary 
conclusion under the withering fire of British machine-guns and a hail of 
British shells. 


A coalition of cripples cannot attack a powerful State which is 
determined, if necessary, to shed the last drop of its blood in order to preserve 
its existence. 


I, as a nationalist, who estimate the worth of humanity according to 
racial standards, must, in recognising the inferiority of the so-called 
‘oppressed nations’, refuse to link the destiny of my own people with the 
destiny of theirs. 


To-day we must take up the same attitude towards Russia. 


The Russia of to-day, deprived of its Germanic ruling class, is, apart 
from the secret designs of its new rulers, no suitable ally in the struggle for 
German liberty. 


From the purely military point of view, a Russo-German coalition 
waging war against Western Europe, and probably against the whole world on 
that account, would be catastrophic for us. 


The struggle would have to be fought out, not on Russian, but on German 
territory, without Germany being able to receive from Russia the slightest 
effective support. The military forces at the disposal of the present German 


742 


Reich are so small and so inadequate for the waging of a foreign war that it 
would be impossible to defend our frontiers against Western Europe, Britain 
included. 


The industrial area of Germany would have to be abandoned undefended 
before the concentrated attack of our adversaries, It must be added that 
between Germany and Russia there is the Polish State, completely in the hands 
of the French. 


Should Germany and Russia together wage war against Western Europe, 
Russia would have to overthrow Poland before the first Russian soldier could 
be conveyed to a German front, but it is less a question of soldiers than of 
technical equipment. 


In this respect our plight during the World War would be repeated, but in 
a more terrible manner. 


At that time, German, industry had to be drained to help our glorious 
allies, and on the technical side Germany had to carry on the war almost alone. 


In this new hypothetical war Russia, as a technical factor, would count 
for nothing. We should have practically nothing to oppose to the general 
mechanisation of the world, which in the next war will assume overwhelming 
and decisive proportions. 


In this important field Germany has not only shamefully lagged behind, 
but would, with the little she has, have to reinforce Russia, which at the 
present moment does not possess a single factory capable of producing a 
motor-car in good running order. 


Under such conditions such a struggle would assume the character of 
sheer slaughter. The youth of Germany would have to shed more of its blood 
than it did even in the World War; for, as always, it would fall to us to bear the 
brunt of the fighting, and the result would be an inevitable catastrophe. 


Even supposing that a miracle took place and that this war did not end in 
the total annihilation of Germany, the final result would be that the German 
nation would be bled white, and, surrounded as she would be by great military 
States, her real situation would be in no way ameliorated. 


It is useless to object here that in case of an alliance with Russia we 
should not think of an immediate war or that anyhow we should have the means 


743 


of making thorough preparations for war. 


This is absurd, since an alliance which is not for the purpose of waging 
war has no meaning and no value. The object of forming an alliance is to wage 
war. 


Even though, at the moment when an alliance is concluded, the prospect 
of war is a distant one, still the idea of the situation developing towards war is 
the reason underlying the formation of an alliance. 


It is out of the question to think that the other Powers would be deceived 
as to the purpose of such an alliance. A Russo-German coalition would either 
remain a mere scrap of paper (in which case it would have no meaning for us), 
or the terms of the agreement would be put into effect, and in that case the rest 
of the world would be forewarned. 


It would be childish to think that in such circumstances Britain and 
France would wait ten years to give the Russo-German alliance time to 
complete its technical preparations. 


Far from it, the storm would break over Germany immediately. The fact 
of forming an alliance with Russia would, therefore; be the signal for a new 
war, the result of which would be the end of Germany. 


To these considerations the following must be added: 


(1) Those who are in power in Russia to-day have no intention of 
forming an honourable alliance or of remaining true to it, 1f they did. 


It must never be forgotten that the present rulers of Russia are blood- 
stained criminals, that here we have the dregs of humanity which, favoured by 
the circumstances of a tragic moment, overran a great State, and, in their lust 
for blood, killed and extirpated millions of educated people belonging to the 
ruling classes, and that now for nearly ten years they have ruled with a savage 
tyranny such as has never been known. 


It must not be forgotten that these rulers belong to a people in which the 
most bestial cruelty is allied to a capacity for artful mendacity and which, to- 
day more than ever, believes itself called upon to impose its sanguinary 
despotism on the rest of the world. 


It must not be forgotten that the international Jew, who is to-day absolute 


744 


master in Russia, does not look upon Germany as an ally, but as a State 
condemned to the same doom as Russia itself. 


One does not form an alliance with a partner whose only aim is the 
destruction of his co-partner. 


Above all, one does not enter into alliances with people to whom no 
treaty is sacred, because they do not exist as the upholders of truth and honour, 
but as the protagonists of lying and deception, thievery, plunder and robbery. 


The man who thinks that he can enter into a treaty with parasites is like a 
tree that believes it can make a bargain with the mistletoe that feeds on it. 


(2) The menace to which Russia once succumbed is perpetually hanging 
over Germany. 


Only a bourgeois simpleton could imagine that the Bolshevist danger has 
been overcome. In his superficial way of thinking he does not suspect that here 
we are dealing with a phenomenon that is due to an urge of the blood, namely, 
the aspiration of the Jewish people to become the despots of the world. 


That aspiration is quite as natural as the impulse of the Anglo-Saxon to 
rule the world, and as the Anglo-Saxon chooses his own way of attaining those 
ends and fights for them with characteristic weapons, so does the Jew. 


The Jew follows his own methods, he insinuates himself into the very 
heart of the nations and then proceeds to undermine the national structure from 
within. 

The weapons with which he works are lies and calumny, poisonous 


infection and disintegration, intensifying the struggle until he has succeeded in 
exterminating his hated adversary to the accompaniment of much bloodshed. 


In Russian Bolshevism we must recognise the kind of attempt which is 
being made by the Jew in the twentieth century to secure dominion over the 
world. In other epochs he worked towards the same goal, but with different, 
though fundamentally similar, means. 


The ambition of the Jew is part and parcel of his very nature. Just as no 
other people would voluntarily check the instinct to increase in numbers or in 
power, unless forced to do so by external circumstances or senile decay, so the 
Jew will never, of his own accord, repress his eternal urge and abandon his 


745 


struggle for world dictatorship. 


Only external forces can thwart him, or his instinct for world domination 
will die out with his race. 


If nations become impotent or extinct through senility it is because they 
have failed to preserve their racial purity. 


The Jews preserve the purity of their blood better than any other people 
on earth. Thus the Jew pursues his fateful course until he meets another and 
superior force and after a desperate struggle he who would have stormed the 
heavens is hurled back once more to the regions of Lucifer. 


To-day Germany is Bolshevism’s next objective. All the force of a fresh 
missionary idea is needed to rouse our nation once more, to free it from the 
toils of the international serpent and stop the process of corruption of our 
blood from within. 


The forces of our nation, thus liberated, may be employed to preserve 
our nationality and in this way, prevent a repetition of the recent catastrophe 
from taking place even in the most distant future. 


If this be the goal we set ourselves, it would be folly to ally ourselves 
with a country whose ruler is the mortal enemy of our future. 


How can we release our people from this poisonous grip if we ourselves 
accept it? 


How can we teach the German worker that Bolshevism is an infamous 
crime against humanity if we ally ourselves with this infernal abortion and 
recognise its existence as legitimate? 


What right have we to condemn the members of the broad masses whose 
sympathies lie with a certain Weltanschauung if the rulers of our State choose 
the representatives of that Weltanschauung as their allies? The struggle against 
the Jewish Bolshevisation of the world demands that we should declare our 
position towards Soviet Russia. We cannot cast out the Devil through 
Beelzebub. 


If to-day even volkisch circles are eager for an alliance with Russia, let 
there but pause to look around in Germany itself, in order that they may realise 
from what quarter their support comes. 


746 


Do these people holding vélkisch views believe that a policy which is 
recommended and acclaimed by the Marxist international press can benefit the 
German people? 


Since when do they fight with weapons provided by the Jew? 


One reproach which could be levelled against the old German Reich 
with regard to its policy of alliances was that it spoiled its relations towards 
all other States by continual vacillation and by its weakness in trying to 
preserve world peace at all costs, but one reproach which cannot be levelled 
against it is that it failed to maintain good relations with Russia. 


I frankly admit that, before the War, I thought it would have been better if 
Germany had abandoned her senseless colonial policy and her naval policy 
and had joined Britain in an alliance against Russia. Thereby Germany would 
renounce her weak world policy for a determined European policy, with the 
idea of acquiring new territory on the Continent. 


I do not forget the constant insolent threats which Pan-Slav Russia made 
against Germany. I do not forget the continual mobilisation rehearsals, the sole 
object of which was to irritate Germany. 


I cannot forget the tone of public opinion in Russia which, in pre-war 
days, excelled itself in hate-inspired outbursts against our nation and our 
Reich, nor can I forget the big Russian press which was always more 
favourable to France than to us. 


Yet, despite all this, another alternative was open to us before the War. 
We might have won the support of Russia and turned against Britain. 


Circumstances are entirely different to-day. Although, before the War, we 
might have swallowed our pride and marched at the side of Russia, that is no 
longer possible to-day. 


Since then the hand of the world-clock has moved forward and points the 
hour in which the destiny of our people must be decided one way or another. 


The present process of consolidation now being carried out by the great 
States of the world is the last warning signal to us to look to ourselves, to bring 
our people back from the realm of visions to the realm of hard facts and point 
the sole way into the future, which will lead the old Reich to a new era of 


prosperity. 


747 


If, in view of this great and most important task before it, the, National 
Socialist Movement sets aside all illusions and takes reason as its sole guide, 
the catastrophe of 1918 may turn out to be an infinite blessing for the future of 
our nation. 


As a result of the collapse our nation may succeed in adopting an entirely 
new attitude with regard to foreign policy, and strengthened within by its new 
Weltanschauung, the German nation may finally stabilise its foreign policy. 


It may end by gaining what Britain has, what even Russia had, and what 
enabled France again and again to make analogous decisions which ultimately 
proved to be to her advantage, namely, a political testament. 


The fundamental principles of the political testament of the German 
nation determining the course of its foreign policy shall be as follows: Never 
permit two continental Powers to arise in Europe. 


Look upon every attempt to establish a second military Power on the 
frontiers of Germany, be it only in the shape of a State capable of becoming a 
military power, as tantamount to an attack upon Germany. 


Regard it not only as your right, but as your duty, to prevent by every 
possible means, including resort to arms, the establishment of such a State, and 
to crush it, should it be established. 


See to it that the strength of our nation does not rest on colonial 
foundations, but on those of our own native territory in Europe. 


Never consider the Reich secure unless, for centuries to come, it is ina 
position to give every descendant of our race a piece of ground that he can call 
his own. 


Never forget that the most sacred of all rights in this world is man’s right 
to the soil which he wishes to cultivate for himself and that the holiest of all 
sacrifices is that of the blood shed for it. 


I should not like to conclude these remarks without referring once again 
to the sole possibility of an alliance that exists for us in Europe at the present 
moment. 


In the previous chapter dealing with the problem of Germany’s policy of 
alliances, I mentioned Britain and Italy as the only countries with which it 


748 


would be worth while for us to strive to forma close alliance and that such an 
alliance would be advantageous. 


I should like here to deal briefly with the military importance of such an 
alliance. 


The military consequences of this alliance would be the direct opposite 
of the consequences of an alliance with Russia. 


Most important of all 1s the fact that a rapprochement with Britain and 
Italy would in no way involve a danger of war. 


The only Power liable to oppose such an alliance would be France who 
would scarcely be in a position to do so. Thus, such an alliance would afford 
Germany an opportunity of quietly making those preparations which, within the 
framework of such a coalition, would necessarily have to lie made with a view 
to settling accounts with France. 


The lull significance of such an alliance lies in the fact that its 
conclusion would not automatically lay Germany open to the threat of invasion, 
but that the very coalition would be broken up, that is to say, the Entente which 
has been the cause of so many of our misfortunes, would be dissolved, thus 
making France, our inveterate enemy, the victim of violation. 


Even though this success would at first have only a moral effect, 1t would 
be sufficient to allow Germany such liberty of action as we cannot now 
imagine, for the new Anglo-German-Italian alliance would have the political 
initiative and no longer France. 


A further result would be that at one stroke Germany would finally be 
delivered from her unfavourable strategical position. 


On the one side, her flank would be strongly protected and, on the other, 
the guarantee that we would have an adequate supply of foodstuffs and raw 
materials would be a beneficial result of this new coalition of States. 


Almost more important, however, is the fact that this new league would 
include States whose potential of technical production would, in many 
respects, be mutually complementary. 


For the first ttme Germany would have allies who would not like 
vampires suck the life-blood of her industry, but could, and would, contribute 


749 


liberally to the completion of our technical equipment. 


We must not forget one final fact, namely, that in this case we should not 
have allies like Turkey or present-day Russia. 


The greatest World Power on this earth and a young national State would 
constitute factors ina European struggle which were very different from the 
corrupt and decadent Powers to which Germany was allied in the last war. 


As I have already said, there are great obstacles in the way of such an 
alliance. But was not the formation of the Entente somewhat more difficult? 


Where King Edward VII succeeded, partly in the face of traditional 
interests, we must and will succeed, if we are so convinced of the necessity for 
such a development that we are wisely prepared to conquer our own feelings 
and carry the policy through. 


This will be possible only when, driven to action by suffering and 
distress, we renounce the shilly-shallying foreign policy of recent decades and 
follow unswervingly a course of action in pursuit of a definite aim. 


The future goal of our foreign policy ought to be neither a Western nor an 
Eastern bias; it ought to be an Eastern policy the object of which is the 
acquisition of such territory as 1s necessary in order that the German people 
can live. 


To carry out this policy we need that force of which France, the mortal 
enemy of our nation, is now depriving us by holding us in her grip and 
pitilessly robbing us of our strength. 


We must, therefore, stop at no sacrifice in an effort to stop France’s 
striving for hegemony in Europe. As our natural ally to-day we have every 
Power on the Continent which, like ourselves, feels France’s lust for mastery 
in Europe unbearable. 


No attempt to approach those Powers ought to appear too difficult to us, 
and no sacrifice should be considered too great, if the final outcome would be 
to make it possible for us to overthrow our most bitter enemy. 


The minor wounds will be cured by the beneficent influence of Time, 
once the major wound has been cauterised and closed. 


Naturally, the internal enemies of our people will how] with rage, but let 


750 


us, as National Socialists, not be misled into ceasing to advocate what our 
most profound conviction tells us to be necessary. 


We must oppose the current of public opinion which will be led astray 
by Jewish cunning in exploiting our German lack of perception. 


The waves may often rage and roar around us; but the man who swims 
with the current attracts less attention than he who buffets it. 


To-day we are but a rock in the river. Ina few years Fate may raise us up 
as a dam against which the general current will be broken, only to flow 
forward in a new bed. 


It is, therefore, necessary that in the eyes of the rest of the world our 
Movement should be recognised as representing a definite political 
programme. 


Whatever fate Heaven may have in store for us, we must be recognised 
by an outward and visible sign. 


As long as we ourselves recognise the ineluctable necessity which must 
determine our foreign policy, this knowledge will lend us that power of 
endurance which we often require when, under the withering fire of the 
opposition press, some of us experience fear and are assailed by the temptation 
to make concessions here or there and ‘to do as the Romans do,’ in order not to 
have the whole world against us. 


751 


yey 


753 

