After we had laid down our arms, in November 1918, a policy was 
adopted which, as far as man could foretell, was bound to lead gradually to 
our complete subjugation. 


Analogous examples culled from history show that those nations which 
lay down their arms without being absolutely forced to do so, subsequently 
prefer to submit to the greatest humiliations and exactions rather than try to 
change their fate by resorting to arms again. 


That can be explained on purely human grounds. A shrewd conqueror 
will always enforce his demands on the conquered only by stages, as far as that 
is possible. 


Then he may be reasonably certain that a people who have lost all 
strength of character (which is always true of every nation that voluntarily 
submits to the threats of an opponent) will not find in any of these acts of 
oppression, if one be enforced apart from the other, sufficient grounds for 
taking up arms again. 


The more often the conquered nation submits to extortion, the less 
justifiable in its eyes is the final revolt against a fresh and apparently isolated, 
but constantly recurring act of extortion, especially if more and greater 
misfortunes have already been borne in silence and with patience. 


The fall of Carthage is a terrible example of the slow destruction of a 
people for which they themselves were to blame. 


In his Drei Bekenntnisse, Clausewitz expressed this idea admirably and 
gave it a definite form when he said, ‘The stigma of shame incurred by 
cowardly submission can never be effaced. The drop of poison which thus 
enters the blood of a nation will be transmitted to posterity. It will undermine 
and paralyse the strength of later generations.’ 


But he added that, on the contrary, ‘even the loss of liberty after a 
sanguinary and honourable struggle ensures the resurgence of a nation and 1s 
the vital nucleus from which a new tree will one day put forth sound roots.’ 


Naturally, a nation which has lost all sense of honour and all strength of 
character will not feel the force of such a doctrine, but any nation that takes it 


754 


to heart will never fall so low. Only those who forget it or do not wish to 
acknowledge it will collapse. Hence, those responsible for a cowardly 
submission cannot be expected suddenly to change their line of conduct in 
accordance with the dictates of common sense and human experience. 


On the contrary, they will repudiate such a doctrine, either until the 
people becomes habituated to the yoke of slavery or until the better elements of 
the nation come to the fore and wrest the power from the hands of the infamous 
corrupter. 


In the first case these who hold power will be pleased with the state of 
affairs, because the conquerors often entrust them with the duties of slave- 
driver, and they, as utterly characterless beings, are then more cruel in the 
exercise of their authority over their own countrymen than the most cruel alien 
appointed to the task by the enemy. 


The events which happened in Germany after 1918 prove how the hope 
of securing the clemency of the victor by means of a voluntary submission had 
the most disastrous influence on the political attitude and conduct of the broad 
masses. 


I say ‘the broad masses’ expressly, because I cannot persuade myself that 
the things which were done or left undone by the leaders of the people are to 
be attributed to a similar disastrous illusion. 


Seeing that since the war our fate has been in the hands of the Jews, and 
to-day admittedly so, it is impossible to assume that a defective knowledge of 
the state of affairs was the sole cause of our misfortunes. 


On the contrary, we may take it for granted that our people were 
intentionally brought to ruin. 


Looked at from this point of view the apparent insanity of our 
government’s foreign policy is revealed as a piece of shrewd calculating logic, 
put into effect in order to promote the Jewish idea of a struggle for world- 
mastery. 


Thus it appears comprehensible that the same period of seven years, 
which, after 1806, sufficed to imbue Prussia (which had been in a state of 
collapse) with fresh vitality and the zeal for battle, has to-day not only been 
wasted, but has led to a steady sapping of the vital strength of the State. 


755 


Seven years after November 1918 the Locarno Pact was signed. Thus the 
development which occurred took the form I have indicated above. 


Once the shameful Armistice had been signed, our people were unable to 
pluck up sufficient courage and energy to offer a sudden resistance to the 
oppressive measures adopted and constantly repeated by the enemy, who was 
too shrewd to put forward too many demands at once. 


He invariably limited his exactions to, amounts which, in his opinion and 
that of our German Government, could be submitted to for the moment, thus 
avoiding the risk of an outburst of public feeling. 


But, the more frequently single impositions were accepted and tolerated, 
the less justifiable did it appear to do now, on account of one single imposition 
or attempted humiliation, what had not been done previously in the case of so 
many others, namely, to offer resistance. That is the ‘drop of poison’ of which 
Clausewitz speaks. Once this lack of character is manifested the resultant 
condition becomes steadily aggravated and weighs like an evil heritage on all 
future decisions. 


It may become a millstone round the nation’s neck, which cannot be 
shaken off, but which forces it to drag out its existence in slavery. 


Thus, in Germany measures enforcing disarmament, oppression, 
economic spoliation and measures designed to render us politically 
defenceless followed one upon the other. 


The result of all this was to create that mood which made so many look 
upon the Dawes Plan as a blessing and the Locarno Pact as a success. 


From a higher point of view we may speak of one sole blessing in the 
midst of so much misery, namely, that, though men may be fooled, Heaven 
cannot be bribed, for Heaven withheld its blessing. 


Since that time misery and anxiety have been the constant companions of 
our people, and distress is the one ally that has remained loyal to us. 


Here, too, Destiny has made no exceptions. It has given us our deserts. 
Since we did not know how to value honour, it has taught us to value liberty 
through want of bread. 


Now that the nation has learned to cry for bread, it may one day learn to 


756 


pray for freedom. 


Bitter and obvious as the collapse of our nation was in the years 
following 1918 that was nevertheless the time chosen to persecute with the 
utmost severity anyone who presumed to foretell what afterwards invariably 
took place. 


This was particularly so when it was a question of ‘silencing’ warning 
voices which were unwelcome because unpleasant. 


The government to which our people submitted was as hopelessly 
incompetent as it was conceited, and this was evinced in their attitude towards 
those who made themselves unpopular by issuing disconcerting warnings. 


Then we saw, as we can see to-day, the greatest parliamentary 
nincompoops, really common saddlers and glove-makers (not merely by trade, 
for that would signify very little) suddenly raised to the rank of statesmen and 
sermonising to humble mortals from that pedestal. 


It did not matter, and it still does not matter, that such a ‘statesman,’ after 
having displayed his talents for six months is shown up for what he is, namely, 
a mere windbag, and becomes the object of public scorn. 


It does not matter that he has given the most conclusive proof of 
complete incompetency. 


On the contrary, the less real the service parliamentary statesmen of this 
Republic render the country, the more savagely do they persecute all who 
expect them to achieve something or who dare to point to their failures and to 
predict similar failures in the future. 


Should anyone finally succeed in pinning down one of these 
parliamentarians to hard facts, so that this ‘statesman’ is unable to deny the 
failure of his whole policy and its results, he will find innumerable excuses for 
his lack of success, but will in no way admit that he himself, is the chief cause 
of the evil. 


By the winter of 1922-23, at the latest, it ought to have, been generally 
recognised that, even after the conclusion of peace, France was still 
endeavouring with iron consistency to realise her original war aims. It is 
inconceivable that for four and a half years France should have continued to 
sacrifice the none too abundant supply of her national blood in the most 


757 


decisive struggle throughout her history in order subsequently to obtain 
compensation through reparations for the damages sustained. 


Even Alsace and Lorraine, taken by themselves, would not account for 
the energy with which the French conducted the War, if Alsace-Lorraine were 
not already considered as a part of the really vast programme which French 
foreign policy had envisaged for the future. 


The aim of that programme was the dismemberment of Germany into a 
number of small states. It was for this that chauvinist France waged war, and in 
so doing she was in reality selling her people as mercenaries to the 
international Jew. 


This French war aim would have been attained through the World War if, 
as was originally hoped in Paris, the struggle had been fought out on German 
soil. 


Let us imagine the bloody battles of the World War not as having taken 
place on the Somme, in Flanders, in Artois, outside Warsaw, Nishni- 
Novogorod, Kowno and Riga, but in Germany, in the Ruhr or on the Maine, on 
the Elbe, outside Hanover, Leipzig, Niirnberg, etc.; had this happened, then we 
must admit that the destruction of Germany might have been accomplished. 


It is very doubtful whether our young federal State could have borne the 
hard struggle for four and a half years, as it was borne by a France that had 
been centralised for centuries, with the whole national imagination focussed on 
Paris. 


If this titanic conflict between the nations took place beyond the frontiers 
of our Fatherland, not only is all the merit due to the immortal service rendered 
by our old Army, but it was also very fortunate for the future of Germany. 


I am of the firm conviction (and this conviction often fills me with dread) 
that if things had taken a different course there would no longer be a German 
Reich, but only ‘German states,’ and that is the only reason why the blood 
which was shed by our friends and brothers during the War was not shed quite 
in vain. 


Events took a different turn. In November 1918 Germany did indeed 
collapse with lightning suddenness, but when the catastrophe took place at 
home the Army was still holding a line deep in the enemy’s country. 


758 


At that time France’s first preoccupation was not the dismemberment of 
Germany, but the problem of how to get the German troops out of France, and 
Belgium as quickly as possible. In order to put an end to the War, the first thing 
that had to be done by the French Government was to disarm the German 
troops and push them back into Germany if possible. 


Until this was done the French could not devote their attention to 
realising their own particular and original war aims. 


France was, however, hindered in this by the fact that as far as Britain 
was concerned, the War was really only won when Germany was destroyed as 
a colonial and commercial power, and was reduced to the rank of a second- 
class State. 


It was not to Britain’s interest to wipe out the German State altogether. In 
fact, on many grounds it was desirable for her to have a future rival against 
France in Europe. 


France was therefore forced to carry on by peaceful means the work for 
which the War had paved the way; and Clemenceau’s statement, that for him 
peace was merely a continuation of the War, thus acquired added significance. 


Persistently and at every possible opportunity the effort to dislocate the 
framework of the Reich had to be continued. By perpetually sending new notes 
that demanded disarmament, on the one hand, and by the imposition of 
economic levies, on the other, which could be carried out as a result of the 
process of disarmament, it was hoped in Paris that the framework of the Reich 
would gradually become unstable. 


The more the Germans lost their sense of national honour, the more 
would economic pressure and continued economic distress be effective as 
factors of political destruction. 


Such a policy of political oppression and economic exploitation, carried 
out for ten or twenty years, must it was believed, in the long run steadily ruin 
and eventually disintegrate the most solid national body. 


Then the French war aims would have been definitely attained. By the 
winter of 1922-23 the intentions of the French must have long been obvious. 


There remained only two possible ways of confronting the situation. It 
was hoped that either French determination might be blunted by the toughness 


759 


of the German national body, or, that it might at least be possible to do what 
was bound to become inevitable one day—that is to say, under the provocation 
of some particularly brutal act of oppression to put the helm of the German 
ship of state to roundabout and ram the enemy. 


That would naturally involve a life-and-death struggle. The chance of 
surviving this struggle depended on whether France could be so far isolated 
beforehand that in this second conflict, Germany would not have to fight 
against the whole world, but in defence of Germany against a France that was 
persistently disturbing the peace of the world. 


I insist on this point, and I am profoundly convinced that it 1s inevitable 
that this second alternative will one day come about. 


I shall never believe that France will of herself alter her intentions 
towards us, because they are, at bottom, only the expression of the French 
instinct for self-preservation. 


Were I a Frenchman, and were the greatness of France as dear to me as 
that of Germany is sacred, I neither could nor would act otherwise than a 
Clemenceau. 


The French nation, which is slowly dying out, not so much through 
depopulation as through the progressive disappearance of the best elements of 
the race, can continue to play an important role in the world only if Germany 
be dismembered. 


French policy may make a thousand detours on the march towards its 
fixed goal, but the destruction of Germany is the end which it always has in 
view as the fulfilment of the most profound desire and ultimate intentions of the 
French. 


Now, it is a mistake to believe that if the will on one side remains 
merely passive and intent on its own self-preservation, it can hold out 
permanently against another will which is not less forceful, but is active. 


As long as the eternal conflict between France and Germany is waged 
only in the form of a German defence against the French attack, it will never be 
brought to a conclusion, although Germany will, in the course of centuries, lose 
one foothold after another. 


If we study the changes, the line of demarcation of the German language 


760 


has undergone from the twelfth century up to our day, in the frontier, within 
which the German language is spoken, we can hardly hope for future success 
from an attitude and development which have hitherto been so detrimental to 
us. 


Only when the Germans have fully realised all this will they cease to 
allow the national will to live to peter out in passive defence, but will rally it 
for a last decisive contest with France and a final struggle for the realisation of 
Germany’s highest aims. 


Only then will it be possible to put an end to the eternal Franco-German 
conflict which has hitherto proved so sterile. Of course it is here presumed that 
Germany sees in the suppression of France nothing more than a means which 
will make it possible for our people finally to expand in another direction. 


To-day there are eighty million Germans in Europe, and our foreign 
policy will be recognised as rightly conducted only when, after barely a 
hundred years, there will be two hundred and fifty million Germans living on 
this Continent, not packed together like coolies and working in factories at the 
bidding of the rest of the world, but as tillers of the soil and workers whose 
labours will be a mutual guarantee for their existence. 


In December 1922, the situation between Germany and France assumed a 
particularly threatening aspect. France had new and comprehensive oppressive 
measures in view and needed pledges. 


Political pressure had to precede economic exploitation, and the French 
believed that only by making a violent attack upon the central nervous system 
of German life would they be able to make our ‘recalcitrant’ people bow to 
their galling yoke. 


By the occupation of the Ruhr, it was hoped in France that not only 
would the moral backbone of Germany be finally broken, but that we should be 
reduced to such grave economic straits that we should be forced to subscribe 
willy-nilly to the heaviest possible obligations. 


It was a question of bending and breaking Germany. At first Germany 
bent and subsequently broke down completely. 


Through the occupation of the Ruhr, Fate once more reached out its hand 
to the German people and gave them the chance to arise, for what at first 
appeared as a heavy stroke of misfortune was found, on closer examination, to 


761 


be an extremely promising opportunity of bringing Germany’s sufferings to an 
end. 


As regards foreign politics, the action of France in occupying the Ruhr 
really estranged Britain for the first time, Indeed it estranged not merely British 
diplomatic circles, which had concluded, appraised and upheld the Anglo- 
French alliance in a spirit of calm and objective calculation, but it also 
estranged large sections of the British public. 


The English business-world in particular ill concealed its displeasure at 
this incredible additional strengthening of the power of France on the 
Continent. 


Not only had France now assumed from the military standpoint alone a 
position in Europe such as Germany herself had not held previously, but she 
thus obtained control of economic resources which, from the practical point of 
view, combined her ability to compete in the political world with economic 
advantages almost amounting to a monopoly. 


The most important iron and coal mines in Europe were now all in the 
hands of one nation which, in contrast to Germany, had hitherto defended its 
vital interests in an active and resolute fashion and which had, during the Great 
War, given the world fresh proof of its military efficiency. The French 
occupation of the Ruhr coal-fields effectively cancelled all that Britain had 
gained by the War, and the victors were no longer the diligent and painstaking 
British statesmen, but Marshal Foch and the France he represented. 


In Italy also the attitude towards France, which, in any case, had not been 
very favourable since the end of the War, now became positively hostile. 


The great and critical moment had come when the Allies of yesterday 
might become the enemies of to-morrow. The fact that events took another 
course and that the Allies did not suddenly come into conflict with one another, 
as in the Second Balkan War, was due to the fact that Germany had no Enver 
Pasha, but merely a Cuno, as Chancellor of the Reich. 


Nevertheless, the French invasion of the Ruhr opened up great 
possibilities for the future, not only in the field of Germany’s foreign policy, 
but also of her internal politics. 


A considerable section of our people who, thanks to the persistent 
influence of a mendacious press, had looked upon France as the champion of 


762 


progress and liberty, were suddenly cured of its illusion. 


As in 1914 the dream of international solidarity was suddenly banished 
from the minds of our German working class and they were brought back to the 
world of everlasting struggle, where one creature feeds on the other and where 
the death of the weaker implies the life of the stronger, so again in the spring of 
1923. 


When the French put their threat into effect and penetrated, at first 
hesitatingly and cautiously, into the coalfield of the Ruhr the hour of destiny 
had struck for Germany. 


If, at that moment, our people had changed not only their frame of mind, 
but also their conduct, the German Ruhr could have been made for France what 
Moscow was for Napoleon. 


Indeed, there were only two possibilities—either to tolerate this new 
move, in addition to all the rest and to do nothing, or to focus the attention of 
the German people on, that region of sweltering forges and blazing furnaces, 
thus firing them with the determination to put an end to this persistent 
humiliation and to face the horrors of the moment rather than submit to a terror 
that was endless. 


Cuno, who was then Chancellor of the Reich, can claim the immortal 
merit of having discovered a third way, and our German bourgeois political 
parties merit the still greater glory of having admired him and collaborated 
with him. 


I shall first deal as briefly as possible with the second alternative. By 
occupying the Ruhr, France committed a flagrant violation of the Versailles 
Treaty. Her action brought her into conflict with several of the guarantor 
Powers, and especially with Britain and Italy. 


She could no longer hope that those States would back her in her 
egotistic act of brigandage. She could only count on bringing the adventure, for 
such it was at the start, to a satisfactory conclusion by her own unaided efforts. 


For a German National Government there was only one alternative, 
namely, the course which honour prescribed. 


Certainly at the beginning we could not have opposed France with active 
armed resistance, but it should have been clearly recognised that any 


763 


negotiations which did not have the argument of force to back them up would 
turn out futile and ridiculous. 


It was absurd to adopt the attitude, ‘We refuse to take part in any 
negotiations,’ unless there was a possibility of offering active resistance, but it 
was still more absurd to consent finally to negotiate without having meantime 
organised a supporting force. 


At the same time, it was, of course, impossible for us to prevent the 
occupation of the Ruhr by the adoption of military measures. 


Only a madman could have recommended such a course, but while the 
impression made by the French action lasted and during the time that that action 
was being carried out, measures could have been, and should have been 
undertaken without any regard to the Versailles Treaty—which France herself 
had violated—to collect a military force which would serve as a collateral 
argument to back up the negotiators later on. 


For it was quite clear from the beginning that the fate of this district 
occupied by the French would one day be decided at some conference table or 
other. 


It must also be quite clear to everybody that even the best negotiators 
have little hope of success as long as the ground on which they stand and the 
very chair on which they sit are not under the armed protection of their own 
people. 


A weak pigmy cannot argue with athletes and a negotiator without armed 
defence at his back must always acquiesce when a Brennus throws his sword 
into the scales on the enemy’s side, unless he can preserve the balance with an 
equally mighty sword of his own. 


It was distressing to watch the comedy of negotiations which, ever since 
1918, regularly preceded each arbitrary dictate that the enemy imposed upon 
us. 


We presented a sorry spectacle in the eyes of the whole world when we 
were invited, as if in derision, to attend conferences, simply to be presented 
with decisions and programmes which had already been drawn up and passed 
a long time previously, and which, though we were permitted to discuss them, 
had, from the outset, to be considered as unalterable. 


764 


It is true that in scarcely a single instance were our negotiators men of 
more than mediocre ability. For the most part they justified only too well the 
sarcastic remark made by Lloyd George with reference to Herr Simon, an ex- 
cabinet minister of the Reich, that the Germans were not able to choose men of 
intelligence as their leaders and representatives. 


But in face of the enemy’s resolute determination to acquire power, on 
the one side, and the lamentable defencelessness of Germany, on the other, 
even a genius could have achieved but little. 


In the spring of 1923, however, anyone who weighed the possibility of 
seizing the opportunity of the French invasion of the Ruhr to reconstruct the 
military power of Germany would first have had to restore to the nation its 
moral weapons, to reinforce its will-power, and to do away with those who 
had destroyed this most valuable element of national strength. 


Just as in 1918 we had to pay with our blood for failure to crush the 
Marxist serpent underfoot once and for all in 1914 and 1915, we have now to 
suffer retribution for the fact that in the spring of 1923, we did not seize the 
opportunity then offered us for finally putting a stop to the mischief being done 
by the Marxist traitors and murderers. 


Any idea of offering real resistance to the French was pure folly as long 
as the fight had not been taken up against those forces which, five years 
previously, had broken German resistance on the battlefields by the influence 
which they exercised at home. 


Only bourgeois minds could have arrived at the ‘incredible conviction 
that Marxism had probably become quite a different thing now and that the 
unprincipled ringleaders of 1918, who callously used the bodies of our two 
million dead as stepping-stones on which they climbed into various 
government positions, would now, in the year 1923, suddenly show themselves 
ready to pay tribute to the national conscience. 


It was veritably a piece of incredible folly to expect that those traitors 
would suddenly appear as the champions of German freedom. 


They had no intention of doing so. Just as a hyena will not abandon its 
carrion, a Marxist will not give up betraying his country. It is beside the point 
to put forward the stupid argument, that so and so many workers gave their 
lives for Germany. That is true, but then they were no longer internationally- 


765 


minded Marxists. 


If, in 1914, the German working class had consisted of real Marxists, the 
War would have ended within three weeks. Germany would have collapsed 
before the first soldier had put a foot beyond the frontier. 


The fact that the German people carried on the War proved that the 
Marxist delusion had not yet penetrated deeply, but as the War dragged on 
German soldiers and workers gradually fell once more under the spell of the 
Marxist leaders, and to the same degree in which they relapsed, their country 
was bereft of their services. If, at the beginning of the War, or even during the 
War, twelve or, fifteen thousand of these Jewish corruptors of the people had 
been forced to submit to poison-gas, just as hundreds of thousands of our best 
German workers from every social class and from every trade and calling had 
to face it in the field, then the millions of sacrifices made at the front would not 
have been made in vain. 


On the contrary, if twelve thousand of these malefactors had been 
eliminated in time, probably the lives of a million decent men, who would 
have been of service to Germany in the future, might have been saved. 


But it was in accordance with bourgeois ‘statesmanship’ to hand over, 
without batting an eyelid, millions of human beings to be slaughtered on the 
battlefield, and to look upon ten or twelve thousand public traitors, profiteers, 
usurers and swindlers, as the nation’s most precious and most sacred asset and 
to publicly proclaim their persons inviolable. 


Indeed it would be hard to, say what is the most outstanding feature of 
these bourgeois circles, mental debility, moral weakness and cowardice, or 
rascally ideology. It is a class that is certainly doomed to go under, but, 
unhappily, it drags down the whole nation with it into the depths. 


The situation in 1923 was similar to that of 1918. No matter what form 
of resistance was decided upon, the first prerequisite for taking action was the 
elimination of the Marxist poison from the body of the nation, and in my 
opinion it was the first task of a really National government to seek and to find 
those forces that were determined to wage a war of annihilation against 
Marxism and to give those forces a free hand. 


It was their duty not to bow down before the fetish of ‘law and order’ at 
a moment when the enemy from without was dealing the Fatherland a death- 


766 


blow and when high treason was lurking at every streetcorner at home. 


A really National government ought then to have welcomed disorder and 
unrest, if this turmoil afforded an opportunity of finally settling with the 
Marxists, who are the mortal enemies of our people. 


This opportunity having been neglected, 1t was sheer folly to think of 
resisting, no matter what form that resistance might take. 


Of course, to settle accounts with the Marxists on a scale which would 
be of genuine historical and universal importance could not be effected along 
lines laid down by some secret council or according to a plan concocted in the 
worn-out brain of some cabinet minister. 


It would have to be in accordance with the eternal laws of life on this 
Earth which are, and will remains those of a ceaseless struggle for existence. 


It must be remembered, that in many instances a hardy and healthy nation 
has emerged from the ordeal of bloody civil war, while from peace conditions 
which had been artificially maintained there often resulted a state of national 
putrescence that reeked to heaven. 


The fate of a nation cannot be altered with the velvet glove and in 1923 
the iron hand should have been used ruthlessly to crush the vipers that battened 
on the body of the nation. Only after this had been done would preparations for 
active resistance have had any point. 


At that time I often talked myself hoarse trying to make clear, at least to 
the so-called national circles, how much was then at stake, and that by 
repeating the errors committed in 1914 and the subsequent years we would 
inevitably meet with the same catastrophe as in 1918. 


I frequently implored them to let Fate have a free hand and to make it 
possible for our Movement to settle with the Marxists, but I preached to deaf 
ears. 


All of them, including the Chief of the Defence Forces, thought they knew 
better, until finally they found themselves forced to subscribe to the vilest 
capitulation in the records of history. 


I then became profoundly convinced that the German bourgeoisie had 
come to the end of its mission and was not capable of fulfilling any further 


767 


function. 


Then, too, I recognised that all the bourgeois parties had been fighting 
Marxism merely out of a spirit of competition without sincerely wishing to 
destroy it. 


They had long ago become reconciled to the idea that their country was 
doomed to destruction and their one care was to secure good seats at the 
funeral banquet. It was for this alone that they kept on ‘fighting.’ 


At that time (I admit it freely) I conceived a profound admiration for the 
great man beyond the Alps, whose ardent love for his people inspired him not 
to bargain with Italy’s internal enemies, but to use every possible means in an 
effort to wipe them out. 


What places Mussolini in the ranks of the world’s great men is his 
decision not to share Italy with the Marxists, but to redeem his country from 
Marxism by destroying internationalism. 


What miserable pygmies our sham statesmen in Germany appear by 
comparison with him! 


How nauseating it is to witness the conceit and effrontery of these 
nonentities in criticising a man who is a thousand times greater than they, and 
how humiliating it is to think that this takes place in a country which as recently 
fifty years ago had a Bismarck for its leader! 


The attitude adopted by the bourgeoisie in 1923 and the way in which 
they dealt kindly with Marxism decided from the outset the fate of any attempt 
at active resistance in the Ruhr. 


With that deadly enemy in our own ranks it was sheer folly to think of 
fighting France. The most that could then be done was to stage a sham fight in 
order to satisfy the German national element to some extent, to tranquillize the 
‘seething indignation of the public,’ or dope it, which was what was really 
intended. 


Had they really believed in what they did, they ought to have recognised 
that the strength of a nation lies, primarily, not in its arms, but in its will, and 
that before setting out to conquer the external enemy, the enemy at home must 
be exterminated; otherwise, disaster must result if victory be not achieved on 
the very first day of the fight. 


768 


The shadow of one defeat is sufficient to break the resistance of a nation 
that has not been liberated from its internal enemies, and give the adversary the 
final victory. 


In the spring of 1923 all this might have been foreseen. It is useless to 
ask whether it was then possible to count on a military success against France, 
for had the result of the German action in regard to the French invasion of the 
Ruhr been only the destruction of Marxism at home, success would have been 
on our side. 


Once liberated from the deadly enemies of her present and future 
existence, Germany would possess forces which no power in the world could 
strangle again. 


On the day when Marxism is broken in Germany, the chains that bind her 
will be smashed for ever, for never in the course of our history have we been 
conquered by the might of our enemies, but only through our own failings and 
the enemy in our own camp. 


Since the German Government of that day were unable to decide on such 
a heroic step, the only alternative left was to house the first course, namely, to 
do nothing and let things slide. 


But, at this crucial moment, Heaven sent Germany a great man in the 
person of Herr Cuno. He was neither a statesman nor a politician by 
profession, still less a born politician, but he was a kind of political office-boy 
who was entrusted with odd jobs. 


Apart from that, he was more of a business-man. It was Germany’s 
misfortune that this politicising business-man looked upon politics in the light 
of business and acted accordingly. 


‘France has occupied the Ruhr. What is there in the Ruhr? Coal. Then 
France has occupied the Ruhr for the sake of its coal!’ 


What was more natural than that Herr Cuno should hit on the idea of a 
strike in order to prevent the French from obtaining coal? 


Then (at least so argued Herr Cuno), they would leave the Ruhr one fine 
day since the occupation had not turned out to be a paying speculation. Such 
were approximately the lines along which that outstanding national statesman 
reasoned. 


769 


At Stuttgart and in other places he addressed ‘his people’ and his people 
were lost in admiration. Of course they needed the Marxists for the strike, 
because the strike had necessarily to be an action undertaken by the workers. 

It was, therefore, essential to bring the worker (who to a bourgeois statesman 
such as Cuno, was one and the same thing as a Marxist) into a united front with 
all other Germans. 


It was wonderful to see how the countenances of these moth-eaten 
bourgeois party politicians beamed with delight when the great genius spoke 
the word of revelation to them. Here was a nationalist and a man of genius. 


At last they had discovered what they had so long sought, for now the 
gulf between Marxism and themselves could be bridged over. Thus it became 
possible for the pseudo-nationalist to play the heavy Teuton to adopt a 
nationalist pose and at the same time to extend the trusty hand of friendship to 
the internationalist traitors of his country. 


The traitors readily grasped that hand, because, just as Herr Cuno had 
need of the Marxist chiefs for his ‘united front,’ the Marxist chiefs needed Herr 
Cuno’s money. Both parties, therefore, benefited by the transaction. 


Cuno obtained his united front, constituted of nationalist chatterboxes 
and anti-national swindlers, and now, with the help of the money paid to them 
by the State, the international imposters were able to pursue their glorious 
mission, which was to destroy the national economic system, this time at the 
expense of the State. 


It was a stroke of genius to think of saving a nation by means of a general 
strike in which the strikers were paid by the State. It was a command that could 
be enthusiastically obeyed by the most indifferent of loafers. 


Everybody knows that prayers will not liberate a nation, but history has 
yet to show whether a nation can be set free by ‘downing tools.’ 


If instead of promoting a paid general strike at that, time, and making this 
the basis of his ‘united front,’ Herr Cuno had demanded two hours more work 
from every German, then the swindle of the ‘united front’ would have been 
over and done with, within three days. 


Nations do not obtain their freedom by refusing to work, but by making 
sacrifices. 


770 


Anyhow, the so-called passive resistance could not last long. Nobody 
but a man entirely ignorant of war could imagine that an army of occupation 
could be frightened and driven out by such ridiculous means, and yet this could 
have been the only purpose of an action for which the country had to pay out 
milliards and which contributed seriously to devaluate the national currency. 


Of course, the French were able to settle down comfortably in the Ruhr 
with an easy mind the moment they saw that such ridiculous measures were 
being adopted against them. 


We ourselves had shown them the best way of bringing a recalcitrant 
civilian population to a sense of reason, if its, conduct implied a serious 
danger to the officials which the army of occupation had placed in authority. 
Nine years previously we had with lightning-like rapidity wiped out bands of 
Belgian francs-tireurs and made the civilian population clearly understand the 
seriousness of the situation, when the activities of these bands threatened grave 
danger to the German Army. 


Similarly, if passive resistance in the Ruhr had really become a menace 
to the French, the armies of occupation would have needed no more than eight 
days to bring the whole piece of childish nonsense to a gruesome end. 


The fundamental question will always be, what are we to do if passive 
resistance reaches a point where it really gets on the nerves of our opponents 
and they proceed to suppress it with force and bloodshed? 


Are we still to resist? If so, then we must, whether we like it or not, 
submit to severe and bloody persecution, and in that case we shall be faced 
with the same situation which we should have had to face, had we offered 
active resistance, in other words, we should have to fight. 


Therefore, so-called passive resistance would be logical only if 
supported by the determination to continue this resistance, if necessary, either 
in an open fight or by means of guerilla warfare. 


Generally speaking, such a struggle is never carried on, except in the 
conviction that success is possible. 


A besieged stronghold, hard pressed by the enemy, surrenders, to all 
practical purposes, at that moment when it is forced to abandon all hope of 
relief, especially if, in such a case, the defenders are attracted by the promise 
of life instead of probable death. 


77) 


Let the garrison of a citadel which has been completely encircled by the 
enemy once lose all hope of deliverance, and the spirit of the defenders is 
broken immediately. 


That is why, if one considers the consequences to which it must 
inevitably have led, if it was to prove successful, passive resistance in the 
Ruhr had no practical meaning unless an active front had been organised to 
support it. 


In that case a tremendous effort might have been demanded of our nation. 
If all the Westphalians in the Ruhr could have been assured that the home 
country had mobilised an army of eighty or a hundred divisions to support 
them, the French would have found themselves treading on thorns. 


Surely a greater number of courageous men could have been found to 
sacrifice themselves for a successful enterprise than for an enterprise that was 
manifestly futile. 


This was the classic occasion that induced us National Socialists to take 
up a resolute stand against the so-called national battle-cry. 


During those months I was attacked by people whose patriotism was a 
mixture of stupidity and humbug and who took part in the general hue and cry 
because of the pleasant sensation they felt at being suddenly enabled to show 
themselves as nationalists, without thereby incurring any danger. In my 
estimation, this despicable united front was one of the most ridiculous 
phenomena imaginable, and events proved that I was right. As soon as the 
trade-unions had nearly filled their treasuries with Cuno’s contributions, and 
the moment had come for passive resistance to change over from inert defence 
to active aggression, the ‘Red’ hyenas suddenly broke out of the national 
sheepfold and appeared in their true light. 


Silently, Herr Cuno stole back to his business. Germany was richer by 
one experience and poorer by the loss of one great hope. 


Up to midsummer of that year several officers, who certainly were not 
the least brave and honourable of their kind, had not really believed that the 
course of things could take a turn that wits so humiliating. 


They had all hoped that—if not openly, then at least secretly—the 
necessary measures would be taken to make this insolent French invasion a 
turning-point in German history. 


yap 


In our ranks also there were many who counted on the intervention of the 
Reich Army. That conviction was so ardent that it exerted a decisive influence 
on the conduct and especially on the training of innumerable young men. 


But when the disgraceful collapse actually took place, and, after millions 
of German money had been spent in vain and thousands of young Germans who 
had been foolish enough to trust in the promises made by the rulers of the Reich 
had been sacrificed, the Government capitulated in the most humiliating way, 
public indignation at such a betrayal of our unhappy nation blazed forth. 


Millions, of people now became fully convinced that Germany could be 
saved only if the whole prevailing system were destroyed root and branch. 


There never had been a more propitious moment for such a solution. On 
the one hand, an act of high treason had been committed against the country, 
openly and shamelessly. 


On the other, a nation was, economically speaking, delivered over to 
slow starvation. Since the State itself had trampled upon all precepts of faith 
and loyalty, made a mockery of the rights of its citizens, rendered the sacrifice 
of millions of its most loyal sons fruitless and robbed other millions of their 
last penny, it could no longer expect anything but hatred from its subjects. 


This hatred against those who had ruined the people and the country was 
bound to find an outlet in one form or another. 


In this connection I quote here the concluding sentence of a speech which 
I delivered at the great trial that took place in the spring of 1924. 


“Let the judges of this State condemn us for our conduct at that time; 
History, the goddess of a higher truth and a finer justice, will smile as she tears 
up their verdict and will acquit us of all guilt.” 


But History will then also summon before its own tribunal, those who, 
invested with power, have trampled on law and justice, condemning our 
people to misery and ruin, and who, in the hour of their country’s misfortune, 
took more account of their own ego than of the life of the community. 


I shall not here relate the history of the events leading up to November 
8th, 1923, and ending with that date. I shall not do so, because I cannot see that 
this would serve any beneficial purpose in the future and also because no good 
could come of opening old sores that have only just healed. 


773 


Moreover, it would be out of place to talk about the guilt of men who, 
perhaps in the depths of their hearts, loved their people equally well and who 
merely failed to take the same path or did not recognise it as the right one to 
take. 


In the face of the great misfortune which has befallen our Fatherland and 
which affects us all, I must abstain from offending and perhaps disuniting those 
men who must, at some future date, form one great united front which will be 
made up of true and loyal Germans and which will have to withstand the 
common front presented by the enemy of our people. 


For I know that a time will come when those who then treated us as 
enemies will venerate the men who trod the bitter way of death for the sake of 
their people. 


I have dedicated the first volume of this book to our eighteen fallen 
heroes. 


Here, at the end of this second volume, let me again, before the adherents 
and champions of our ideals, evoke the memory of those men as heroes who, in 
the full consciousness of what they were doing, sacrificed their lives for us all. 


They must always recall the weak and wavering to a sense of their duty- 
that same duty which they themselves fulfilled loyally even to the making of the 
supreme sacrifice. 


I regard as one of their number that man who, as one of the best among 
us, devoted his life, in his works, in his philosophy and finally in action, to 
awakening the nation that was his and ours. 


That man was DIETRICH ECKART. 


774 


7715 


776 

