In the preceding chapter I mentioned the existence of a co-operative 
association between the German patriotic societies. Here I shall deal briefly 
with this question. 


In speaking of a co-operative association we generally mean a group of 
societies which, for the purpose of facilitating their work, establish mutual 
relations for collaborating along certain lines, appointing a common board of 
management vested with a varying degree of authority with a view to 
undertaking concerted action. 


This very fact shows that these were societies, associations and parties, 
whose aims and course of action were not too widely divergent, and it was 
asserted that this was invariably true. 


The average citizen is pleased and reassured when he hears that these 
societies, by establishing a co-operative association, have at long last 
discovered a common platform on which they can stand united and have 
eliminated all causes of dissension. 


Therewith a general conviction arises, to the effect that such a union is 
an immense gain in strength and that small groups which were weak as long as 
they stood alone have now suddenly become strong. 


Yet this conviction is generally a mistaken one. 


It will be interesting and, in my opinion, important for the better 
understanding of this question to try to get a clear notion of how it came about 
that so many of these associations, unions, etc., were formed when all of them 
declared that they had the same ends in view. 


In itself it would be logical to expect that one aim should be fought for 
by a single association and it would be more sensible if there were not a 
number of associations fighting for the same aim. 


In the beginning there was undoubtedly only one association which had 
this one fixed aim in view. Some men somewhere stated a definite fact, called 
for the solution of a definite problem, enunciated their aim and founded a 


573 


movement for the purpose of achieving that aim. 


That is how an association or a party is founded, whose programme may 
be either the abolition of existing evils or the positive establishment of a 
certain order of things in the future. 


Once such a movement has come into existence it may lay practical 
claim to certain priority rights. 


The natural course of things would now be that all those who wish to 
fight for the same objective as this movement is striving for, should identify 
themselves with it and thus increase its strength, so that the common purpose in 
view may be the better served. 


Especially men of superior intelligence must feel, one and all, that by 
joining the movement they are establishing precisely those conditions which 
are necessary for practical success in the common struggle. 


Accordingly it is reasonable and, in a certain sense, honest—which 
honesty, as I shall show later, 1s an element of very great importance—that only 
one movement should be founded for the purpose of attaining one aim. 


The fact that this does not happen must be attributed to two causes. The 
first may almost be described as tragic; the second as despicable, because it 
has its source in the weaknesses of human nature. 


But, when all is said and done, I see in both causes only facts which go 
to strengthen our determination and our energy and which, by this 
intensification of human activity render possible the solution of the problem in 
question. 


The tragic reason why it so often happens that the pursuit of one definite 
task is not left to one association alone is as follows: Generally speaking, 
every action carried out on a grand scale is the expression of a desire that has 
already existed for a long time in millions of human hearts, a longing which 
may have been nourished, in silence. 


It may even happen that throughout the centuries many men have been 
yearning for the solution of a definite problem, because they have been 
suffering under an unendurable state of affairs, without hope of fulfilment of the 
universal longing. 


574 


Nations which are no longer capable of finding a heroic deliverance 
from such a sorrowful fate may be looked upon as effete. 


But, on the other hand, nothing affords better proof of the vital forces of a 
people and the consequent guarantee of its right to exist than that one day, 
through a happy decree of Destiny, a man arises who is capable of liberating 
his people from some great oppression, or of wiping out some bitter distress, 
or of calming the national soul which had been tormented through is sense of 
insecurity, and thus fulfilling what had long been the universal yearning of the 
people. 


An essential characteristic of what are called the great questions of the 
age 1s that thousands undertake the task of solving them and that many feel 
themselves called upon to fulfil this task; it may even be that Destiny herself 
puts forward many for selection, in order that, through the free play of events 
the strongest and most capable man shall ultimately be the victor and be 
entrusted with the task of solving the problem. Thus it may happen that for 
centuries many are discontent with the form in which their religious life 
expresses itself and yearn for a reformation. 


So it may come about that through this impulse of the soul some dozens 
of men may arise who believe that, by virtue of their understanding and their 
knowledge, they are called upon to solve the religious difficulties of the day 
and accordingly present themselves as the prophets of a new doctrine or at 
least as declared adversaries of the accepted dogmas. 


Here also it is certain that the laws of Nature will take their course, 
inasmuch as the strongest will be destined to fulfil the great mission, but 
usually the others are slow to acknowledge that only one man is called upon to 
fulfil the task. 


On the contrary they all believe that they have an equal right to engage in 
the solution of the difficulties 1n question and that they are equally fitted for 
that task. 


Their contemporary world is generally quite unable to decide which of 
them possesses the highest gifts and accordingly merits universal support. 


Thus, in the course of centuries, and indeed often within the same epoch, 
different men establish different movements to achieve the same end. 


At least the end is declared by the founders of the movements to be the 


my) 


same, or may be looked upon as such by the bulk of the people. 


The people nourish vague desires and have only general opinions, 
without having any precise notion of their own ideals and desires or of the 
question whether and how it is possible for these ideals and desires to be 
fulfilled. 


The tragedy lies in the fact that many men struggle to reach the same 
objective by different roads, each one genuinely believing in his own mission 
and holding himself in duty bound to follow his own road without regard for 
the others. 


These movements, parties, religious groups, etc., originate entirely 
independently of one another out of the general urge of the age, and all witha 
view to working towards the same goal. 


It may seem a tragic thing, at least at first sight, that this should be so, 
because people are too often inclined to think that forces which are dispersed 
in different directions would attain their ends far more quickly and more surely 
if they were united in one common effort. 


This is, however, not so, for Nature herself decides according to the 
rules of her inexorable logic. She leaves these diverse groups to compete with 
one another and dispute the palm of victory in order, finally, to lead that 
movement to the final goal which has chosen the clearest, shortest and surest 
path. 


How can the world decide which path is right or wrong, if the available 
forces are note given free play, if the final decision is not taken out of the hands 
of men who are convinced of their own infallibility and left to the infallible 
test of established success which 1s always the final confirmation of the justice 
of a course of action. 


Therefore, if various groups are striving by various routes to reach the 
same goal, they will, inasmuch as they are aware that similar efforts are being 
made elsewhere, examine more critically their own method of procedure, 
simplify it if possible and, by exerting themselves to the utmost, try to reach 
that goal more quickly. 


Through this rivalry the faculties of each individual protagonist are 
developed to a still higher pitch of perfection and the human race has 
frequently owed its progress to the lessons learned front former attempts which 


576 


have come to grief. 


Thus it happens that in the initial dispersion of effort for which the 
individual is not consciously to blame and which appeared at first sight to be 
fraught with tragic consequences, we may recognise the means by which the 
best method is finally selected. 


History shows that, as most people believe, the two parties by whicha 
solution of the German problem might have been reached amid whose chief 
advocates were Austria and Prussia, the Habsburg and the Hohenzollern, 
should have been united from the outset. 


In the opinion of these same people both parties should have decided to 
follow either one path or the other, but at that time, the path chosen would 
inevitably have been that of the rival who was then more important and 
Austria’s aims would never have included the foundation of the German Reich. 


A strong and united German Reich finally arose out of that which many 
millions of Germans deplored in their hearts as the last and most terrible 
manifestation of our fratricidal strife. 


The truth is that the German Imperial Crown was secured on the 
battlefield of Koniggratz and not, as was commonly asserted afterwards, in the 
battles that were waged outside Paris. 


Thus the foundation of the German Reich was not the consequence of any 
common will working along common lines, but it was rather the outcome of a 
deliberate, if sometimes unconscious, struggle for hegemony, in which Prussia 
finally was victorious. 


Anybody who is not so blinded by party politics as to be unable to 
recognise the truth must perforce admit that the so-called wisdom of men 
would never have come to the same wise decision which the wisdom of Life 
itself, that is to say, the free play of forces, finally brought to realisation. 


For in the German territories of two hundred years ago who would 
seriously have believed that Hohenzollern Prussia, and not Habsburg, would 
become the nucleus, the founder and the tutor of the new Reich? 


And, on the other hand, who would deny to-day that Destiny thus acted 
with more insight than human wisdom. Who could now imagine a German 
Reich based on the foundations of an effete and degenerate dynasty? 


ay | 


The natural course of events, even though it took centuries of struggle, 
finally awarded the superior force the position which it was fitted to occupy. 


This will always be so and will remain, as it always has been, an 
immutable law. It is, therefore, not a matter for regret if different men set out to 
attain the same objective by various means. 


In this way the strongest and swiftest is recognised and will be the 
victor. 


There is yet a second cause for the fact that often in the lives of nations 
several movements which show the same characteristics strive by different 
routes to reach what appears to be the same goal. 


This second cause is not at all tragic, but merely deserves scorn. 


It arises from a sad mixture of envy, jealousy, ambition and predatory 
instincts. Unfortunately these failings are often found united in single 
specimens of the human species. 


The moment a man arises who profoundly understands the distress of his 
people and, having diagnosed the evil with perfect accuracy, takes measures to 
cure it; the moment he fixes his aim and chooses the means to reach it then 
paltry and pettifogging people become all attention and eagerly follow the 
doings of this man who has thus come before the public eye. 


Just like sparrows who are apparently indifferent, but in reality keenly 
observant of the movements of their more fortunate companion with the morsel 
of bread, in order that they may snatch it from him if he should momentarily 
relax his hold, so it is also with the human species. 


All that is needed is that one man should strike out on a new road and 
then a crowd of poltroons will prick up their ears and begin to hope that some 
trifling gain may lie at the end of that road. 


The moment they think they have discovered where the reward is to be 
reaped they hasten to find another route by which to reach the goal more 
quickly. 


AS soon as a new movement is founded and has formulated a definite 
programme, people of that kind come forward and proclaim that they are 
fighting for the same cause. 


578 


This does not imply that they are honestly ready to join the ranks of such 
a movement and thus recognise its right of priority. 


It implies rather that they intend to steal the programme and found a new 
party. In doing this they are shameless enough to assure the unthinking public 
that they had long intended to take the same line of action as the other had now 
taken and frequently succeed in thus placing themselves in a favourable light, 
instead of arousing the general disapprobation which they justly deserve. 


For it is a piece of gross impudence to steal another’s slogan and 
proclaim it as one’s own, to steal the programme of another, and then to form a 
separate group as if all this had been created by the new founder of this group. 


The impudence of such conduct is particularly obvious when the 
individuals who first caused dispersion and disruption by their new foundation 
are, the same who (as experience has shown) are most emphatic in proclaiming 
the necessity for union and unity the moment they find they cannot catch up with 
their adversary’s advance. 


It is to that kind of conduct that so-called ‘volkisch disintegration’ is to 
be attributed. 


Certainly in the years 1918-1919 the founding of a multitude of new 
groups, parties, etc., calling themselves ‘volkisch’ was a natural phenomenon 
of the time, for which the founders were not responsible. 


By 1920 the National Socialist German Labour Party had slowly 
crystallised from all these parties and had become supreme. 


There could be no better proof of the sterling honesty of certain 
individual founders than the fact that many of them decided, in a way that calls 
for admiration, to sacrifice their manifestly less successful movements to the 
stronger movement, by joining it unconditionally and dissolving their own. 


This is especially true in regard to Julius Streicher, who was at that time 
the protagonist of the German Socialist Party in Nurnberg. 


The National Socialist German Labour Party had been founded with 
similar aims in view, but quite independently of the other. 


As I have already said, Streicher, then a teacher in Nurnberg, was the 
chief protagonist of the German Socialist Party. He had a sacred conviction of 


519 


the mission and future of his own movement. 


As soon, however, as he recognised the superior strength and steadier 
growth of the National Socialist Party, he gave up his work in the German 
Socialist Party and called upon his followers to fall into line with the National 
Socialist German Labour Party, which had emerged victorious from the mutual 
contest, and carry on the fight for the common cause within its ranks. The 
decision was personally a difficult one for him, but it showed a profound sense 
of honour. 


When that first period of the Movement was over, there remained no 
further dispersion of forces, for their honest intentions had led the men of that 
day to the same honourable, straightforward and just conclusion. 


What we now call the ‘volkisch disintegration’ owes its existence 
exclusively to the second of the two causes which I have mentioned. 


Ambitious men who, at first, had no ideas of their own, and still less any 
‘conception of aims to be pursued, felt themselves ‘called upon’ exactly at that 
moment in which the success of the National Socialist German Labour Party 
became unquestionable. 


Programmes suddenly appeared which were mere transcripts of ours. 
Ideas were proclaimed which had been filched from us. Aims were enunciated 
on behalf of which we had been fighting for several years, and a course of 
action chosen which the National Socialists had for a long time followed. 


All kinds of means were resorted to for the purpose of trying to convince 
the public that, although the National Socialist German Labour Party had now 
been in existence for a long time it was found necessary to establish these new 
parties, but the more noble the motives put forward, the more insincere the 
phraseology. 


In reality there was only one dominant motive, namely, the personal 
ambition of the founders, who wished to play a part in which their own pigmy 
talents could contribute nothing except the grass effrontery of appropriating the 
ideas of others, a mode of conduct which in ordinary life is looked upon as 
thieving. 


At that time there was not an idea or concept launched by other people 
which these political kleptomaniacs did not seize upon at once for the purpose 
of applying it for their own ends. 


580 


Those who did all this were the same people who subsequently, with 
tears in their eyes, profoundly deplored ‘vdlkisch disintegration’ and spoke 
unceasingly about the ‘necessity for unity.’ 


In doing this they nurtured the secret hope that they might be able to cry 
down the others, who would tire of hearing these loud-mouthed accusations 
and would end up by abandoning in favour of the thieves, not only the ideas 
already stolen by the latter, but the movements which had been founded for the 
execution of these ideas. 


When that did not occur and the new enterprises, thanks to the poor 
mentality of their promoters, did not show, the favourable results which had 
been promised beforehand, then they became more modest in their pretensions 
and were happy if they could find refuge in one of the so-called ‘co-operative 
associations.’ 


At that period everything which could not stand on its own feet joined 
one of those cooperative associations, probably in the belief that eight cripples 
arm-in-arm equalled one gladiator. 


If among all these cripples there was one who was sound of limb he had 
to use all his strength to sustain the others and thus he himself was, in the long 
run, crippled. 


We ought to look upon the question of joining these co-operative 
associations as a tactical problem, but, in coming to a decision, we must never 
forget the fundamental principle that through the formation of a co-operative 
association, societies which are weak in themselves can never be made strong, 
whereas it can and does not infrequently happen that a strong society or party 
loses in strength by joining a coalition of weaker ones. 


It is a mistake to believe that a factor of strength will result from the 
coalition of weak groups, because experience shows that in any form and under 
any conditions the majority is representative of the stupid and cowardly 
elements. 


Hence, a multiplicity of societies or parties is, aS soon as it comes under 
the control of a board of management consisting of several persons elected by 
the parties, the victim of weakness and cowardice. 


Through such a coalition the free play of forces is paralysed, the struggle 
for the-selection of the best is abolished and therewith the necessary and final 


581 


victory of the healthier and stronger elements is impeded. 


Coalitions of that kind are inimical to the process of natural 
development, because for the most part they hinder rather than advance the 
solution of the problem which is the object of the struggle. 


It may happen that, from considerations of a purely tactical kind, the 
leaders of a movement which looks ahead will enter into a coalition with 
other, movements for the treatment of special questions and may also act in 
common with them, but this can be only for a short and limited period. 


Such a coalition must not be permanent, if the movement does not wish to 
renounce its liberating mission, because if it should become indissolubly tied 
up in such a combination it would lose the capacity and the right to allow its 
own forces to work freely in following out a natural development, in order to 
overcome rivals and attain its own objective. 


It must never be forgotten that nothing really great in this world has ever 
been achieved through coalitions, but that such achievements have always been 
due to the triumph of the individual. 


Successes achieved through coalitions, owing to the very nature of their 
source carry in them from the very start the germs of future disintegration and 
the possibility of losing what has already been achieved. 


The great revolutions which have taken place in human thought and have 
transformed the aspect of the world would have been inconceivable and 
impossible except as the titanic struggles waged by individual elements. They 
could never have been the work of coalitions. 


Above all things, the volkisch State will never be created by the 
compromising attitude of co-operative associations but only by the iron 
determination of a single movement which has struggled and triumphed over 
all the others. 


582 


583 


584 
