Owing to the rapid growth of the movement, we felt compelled in 1922 
to take a definite stand on a question which has not been fully solved even yet. 


In our efforts to discover the quickest and easiest way for the Movement 
to reach the heart of the broad masses, we were always confronted with the 
objection that the worker could never completely belong to us while his 
interests in the purely vocational and economic sphere were cared for by a 
political organisation conducted by men whose principles were quite different 
from ours. 


That was quite a serious objection. The general belief was that a 
workman engaged in some trade or calling could not exist if he did not belong 
to a trade-union. 


Not only were his professional interests thus protected, but his position 
in the factory or concern, would, in the long run, have become untenable, if he 
were not a member of a trade-union. 


The majority of the workers belonged to trade-unions. Generally 
speaking, the unions had conducted successfully the battle for the establishment 
of a definite scale of wages and had concluded agreements which guaranteed 
the worker a steady income. 


Undoubtedly, all workers benefited by the results of that campaign and, 
for honest men especially, conflicts of conscience must have arisen if they took 
the wages which had been assured through the struggle fought by the trade- 
unions and at the same time refrained from taking part in the fight. 


It was difficult to discuss this problem with the average bourgeois 
employer. He had no understanding (or did not wish to have any) for either the 
material or moral side of the question. 


Finally, his own supposed economic interests were, on principle, 
opposed to every kind of organisation which united the workmen that were 
dependent on him. Hence it was for the most part impossible to bring these 
bourgeois employers to take an impartial view of the situation. 


672 


Here, therefore, as in so many other cases, it was necessary to appeal to 
disinterested outsiders who would not be liable to fix their attention on the 
trees and fail to see the forest. 


With a little goodwill on their part, they could readily understand a state 
of affairs which is of the highest importance for our present and future 
existence. 


In the first volume of this book I have already expressed my views on the 
nature, purpose and necessity of trade-unions. There I adopted the standpoint 
that, unless measures are undertaken by the State (usually futile in such cases) 
or a new ideal is introduced in our education, which would change the attitude 
of the employer towards the worker, no other course will be open to the latter, 
except to defend his own interests himself by claiming his equal rights as a 
contracting party within the economic sphere of the nation’s existence. 


I stated further that this would conform to the ideal of a national 
community, if thereby social injustices could be redressed which would 
otherwise cause serious damage to the whole social structure. 


I stated, moreover, that the worker would always find it necessary to 
undertake this protective action as long as there were men among the 
employers who had no sense of their social obligations or even of the most 
elementary human rights, whilst I concluded by saying, that, if such self- 
defence be considered necessary, its form ought to be that of an association 
made up of the workers themselves on the basis of trade-unions. 


This was my general idea and it remained the same in 1922, but a clear 
and precise formula was still to be discovered. We could not be satisfied with 
merely understanding the problem; it was necessary to come to some 
conclusions that could be put into practice. 


The following questions had to be answered: 
(1) Are trade-unions necessary? 


(2) Should the National Socialist German Labour Party itself operate on 
a trade-unionist basis or have its members take part in trade-unionist activities 
in some form or other? 


(3) What form should a National Socialist trade-union take? What are the 
tasks confronting us and the ends we must try to attain? 


673 


(4) How can we establish trade-unions for such tasks and aims? 


I think that I have already answered the first question adequately. In the 
present state of affairs Iam convinced that we cannot possibly dispense with 
the trade-unions. On the contrary, they are among the most important 
institutions in the economic life of the nation. 


Not only are they important in the sphere of social policy but also, and 
even more so, in the national political sphere, for, when the great messes of a 
nation see their vital needs satisfied through a just trade-unionist movement, 
which is at the same time educating them, the stamina of the whole nation in its 
struggle for existence will be enormously reinforced thereby. Above all, the 
trade-unions are necessary as building stones for the future economic 
parliament, which will be made up of chambers representing the various 
professions and occupations. 


The second question is also easy to answer. If the trade-unionist 
movement is important, then it is clear that National Socialism ought to take a 
definite stand on that question, not only theoretically, but also in practice. But 
how? That is more difficult to decide. 


The National Socialist Movement, which aims at establishing the 
National Socialist vol/kisch State, must always bear in mind the principle that 
every future institution under that State must be evolved from the Movement 
itself. 


It is a great mistake to believe that, by the mere acquisition of supreme 
political power, we can suddenly bring about a definite reorganisation, from 
nothing, without the help of a certain reserve of men who have been trained 
beforehand, especially in the spirit of the Movement. 


Here, also, the principle holds good that the spirit is always more 
important than the external form which it animates, since this form can be 
created mechanically and quickly. 


For instance, the leadership principle may be imposed on an organised 
political community in a dictatorial way. But, this principle can become a 
living reality only when, by means of a gradual process of development from 
an extremely small nucleus, and by that process of elimination which the hard 
realities of life continually enforce, there is produced, after the lapse of years, 
the necessary material from which leaders, capable of carrying the principle 


674 


into practical effect, are chosen. 


It is out of the question to think that a scheme for the constitution of a 
State can be pulled out of a portfolio at a moment’s notice and ‘introduced’ by 
imperative orders from above. 


One may try that kind of thing, but the result will always be something 
that cannot endure, and may even prove abortive. 


This calls to mind the origin of the Weimar Constitution and the attempt 
to impose on the German people a new constitution and a new flag, neither of 
which had any inner relation to the vicissitudes of our nation’s history during 
the last half century. 


The National Socialist State must guard against all such experiments. It 
can only grow out of an organisation which has already existed for a long time. 


This organisation must be in itself the essence of National Socialist life, 
so that finally it may be able to establish a National Socialist State which will 
be a living reality. 


As I have already said the germ-cells of the economic chambers must be 
established in the various vocational representative bodies and especially in 
the trade-unions. If this subsequent vocational representation and the central 
economic parliament are to be National Socialist institutions, these important 
germ-cells must be vehicles of the National Socialist ideology. 


The institutions of the Movement must be transferred to the State; but the 
State cannot call into existence all of a sudden and as if by magic, 
corresponding organisations unless these are to remain completely lifeless. 


Looking at the matter from the highest standpoint, the National Socialist 
Movement will have to recognise the necessity for instituting its own trade- 
unionist activities. 

It must do so for a further reason, namely, because a real National 
Socialist education for the employer as well as for the employee, in the spirit 
of mutual co-operation within the common framework of the national 
community, cannot be secured by theoretical instruction, appeals and 
exhortations, but only through the struggle of daily life. 


In and through this struggle the Movement must educate the several large 


675 


economic groups and bring them closer to one another through a wider outlook. 
Without this preparatory work it would be sheer illusion to hope that a real 
national community could be brought into existence. 


Only the great Weltanschauung for which the Movement is fighting can 
serve to form by degrees that general attitude which the new era will one day 
prove to be internally and fundamentally sound and not mere outward show. 


Hence, the Movement must not only adopt a positive attitude towards the 
trade-unionist idea, it must go further; it must, by means of practical activity, 
provide the multitude of its members and adherents with the education 
requisite for the future National Socialist State. 


The answer to the third question follows from what has already been 
said. The National Socialist trade-union is not an instrument for class warfare, 
but a representative organ of the various professions and callings. 


The National Socialist State recognises no ‘classes’ but, from the 
political point of view, only citizens with absolutely equal rights and equal 
obligations corresponding thereto. 


Apart from these, it recognises subjects of the State who have no 
political rights whatsoever. 


According to the National Socialist concept, it is not the task of the 
trade-union to band together certain men within the national community and 
thus gradually to transform these men into a class, so as to use them ina 
conflict against other similarly organised groups within the national 
community. 


We certainly cannot assign this task to the trade-union as such. This was 
the task assigned to it the moment it became a fighting weapon in the hands of 
the Marxist. 


The trade-union is not naturally an instrument of class warfare; but the 
Marxists transformed it into an instrument for use in their own class struggle. 


They created the economic weapon which the international Jew uses for 
the purpose of destroying the economic foundations of free and independent 
national States, of ruining their national trade and industry and thereby 
enslaving free nations to serve Jewish world finance, which transcends all 
state boundaries. 


676 


In contradiction to this, the National Socialist trade-union must organise 
definite groups of those who participate in the economic life of the nation. 
They will thus enhance the security of the national economic system, 
reinforcing it by the elimination of all those anomalies which ultimately 
exercise a destructive influence on the social body of the nation, damage the 
vital forces of the national community, prejudice the welfare of the State and, 
by no means least, bring evil and destruction on economic life itself. 


In the hands of the National Socialist trade-union the strike is not, 
therefore, an instrument for disturbing and dislocating national production, but 
for increasing it and making it run smoothly, by fighting against all those abuses 
which, by reason of their non-social character, hinder efficiency in business 
and thereby hamper the existence of the whole nation. 


Individual efficiency is always in direct relation to the general social 
and legal position of the individual in the economic process, and to the 
consequent conviction that the economic prosperity of the nation must 
necessarily redound to the benefit of the individual citizen. 


The National Socialist employee will have to recognise the fact that his 
own material welfare is bound up with the economic prosperity of the nation. 


The National Socialist employer must recognise that the welfare and 
contentment of his employees are necessary prerequisites for the existence and 
development of his own economic prosperity. 


National Socialist workers and employers are both, at one and the same 
time, the representatives and administrators of the whole national community. 
The large measure of personal freedom which is accorded to them for their 
activities is to be explained by the fact that experience has shown that the 
productive powers of the individual are greater if he is accorded a generous 
measure of freedom than if he is coerced from above. 


Moreover, by according this freedom, we give free play to the natural 
process of selection which brings forward the ablest, most capable and most 
industrious. 


For the National Socialist trade-union, therefore, the strike 1s a means 
that may, and indeed must be, resorted to as long as there is not yet a National 
Socialist vélkisch State, but when that State is established it will, as a matter 
of course, abolish the class struggle between the two great groups made up of 


677 


employers and employees respectively. For that is a struggle which has always 
resulted in lessening national production and injuring the national community. 


In place of this struggle, the National Socialist State will undertake the 
task of caring for and defending the rights of all parties concerned. 


It will be the duty of the economic chambers to keep the national 
economic system in smooth working order and to remove whatever defects or 
errors may affect it adversely. 


Questions which are to-day settled only by the struggle of millions of 
people will then be settled in the representative chambers of trades and 
professions and in the central economic parliament. 


Thus employers and employees will no longer find themselves drawn 
into a mutual conflict over wages and hours of work, always to the detriment of 
the interests of both. 


They will solve these problems together before a higher authority, whose 
sole aim will be to safeguard the welfare of the national community and of the 
State. Here, as everywhere else, the inflexible principle must hold good that 
the interests of the country must come before party interests. 


The task of the National Socialist trade-union will be to educate and 
prepare its members to conform to these ideals, namely, that all must work 
together for the maintenance and security of our nation and its State, each one 
according to the abilities and powers with which Nature has endowed him and 
which have been developed and trained by the national community. 


Our fourth question was, ‘How can we establish trade-unions for such 
tasks and aims?’ It is by far the most difficult to answer. 


Generally speaking, it is easier to establish something in new territory 
than in old territory which already has its established institutions. 


It is easy to set up a new business in a district where there 1s no existing 
business of the same kind, but it is more difficult if the same kind of enterprise 
already exists and it is most difficult of all when the conditions are such that 
only one enterprise of this kind can prosper. 


In the latter case, the promoters of the new enterprise find themselves 
confronted not only with the problem of introducing their own business, but 


678 


also that of how to bring about the destruction of the other business already 
existing in the district, so that the new enterprise may prosper. 


It would be senseless to have a National Socialist trade, union side by 
side with other trade-unions, for the former must be thoroughly imbued with a 
feeling for the ideological nature of its task and the resulting obligation not to 
tolerate other similar or hostile institutions. 


It must also insist that it alone is necessary, to the exclusion of all the 
rest. It can come to no arrangement and no compromise with kindred 
tendencies, but must assert its own absolute and exclusive right to exist. 


There were two ways which might have led to such a development: 


(1) We could have established our own trade-union and then gradually 
taken up the fight against the Marxist international trade-unions. 


(2) We could have joined the Marxist trade-unions in an attempt to imbue 
them with a new spirit and, with the idea of transforming them into an 
instrument in the service of the new ideal. For the following reasons, it would 
have been inadvisable to choose the first method. Our financial situation was 
still the cause of much concern to us at that time and our resources were very 
slender. 


The effects of the inflation were steadily spreading and made the 
situation still more difficult, because at that time the trade-unions were unable 
to render their members any tangible service. 


From this point of view, there was no reason why the individual worker 
should pay his dues to the union. Even the Marxist unions then existing were on 
the point of collapse when, as the result of Herr Curio’s inspired Ruhr policy, 
millions suddenly poured into their coffers. This so-called ‘national’ 
Chancellor of the Reich should be dubbed the ‘saviour’ of the Marxist trade- 
unions. 


We could not count on similar financial facilities, and nobody would 
have felt inclined to join a new trade-union which, on account of its financial 
weakness, could not offer him the slightest material benefit. 


On the other hand, I had to guard against the danger of creating a new 
organisation of this kind which would only serve to provide ‘cushy jobs’ for 
men of little ability. 


679 


At that time the question of personnel played a most important role. I did 
not have a single man whom I could have called upon to carry out this 
important task. 


He who could have succeeded at that time in overthrowing the Marxist 
unions to make way for the triumph of the National Socialist corporative idea, 
which would have replaced this weapon of ruinous class warfare, could have 
been reckoned as one of the very greatest men our country had produced and 
his bust installed in the Valhalla at Regensburg for the admiration of posterity. 


But I knew of no person who could have qualified for such an honour. In 
this connection we must not be led astray by the fact that the international 
trade-unions are conducted by men of only mediocre significance. This fact is 
actually of no importance, for when those unions were founded there was 
nothing else of a similar kind in existence. 


To-day, the National Socialist Movement must fight against a monster 
organisation which has existed for a long time, and has been carefully thought 
out to the last detail. 


The assailant must always exercise more intelligence than the defender, 
if he is to overthrow the latter. 


The Marxist trade-unionist citadel may be governed to-day by mediocre 
leaders, but it cannot be taken by assault, except through the dauntless energy 
and genius of a superior leader on the other side. If such a leader cannot be 
found it is futile to haggle with Fate and even more foolish to try to make the 
attempt under a leader wanting in the necessary qualities. Here one must apply 
the maxim that in life it is often better to leave a thing alone for the time being, 
rather than try to do it by halves or do it badly, owing to a lack of suitable 
means. 


To this we had to add another consideration, which was not at all of a 
demagogic character. At that time I had, and I still have to-day, the firmly- 
rooted conviction that when one is engaged in a great ideological struggle in 
the political field, it would be a grave mistake to mix up economic questions 
with this struggle in its earlier stages. 


This applies particularly to our German people, because in their case, 
the economic struggle would immediately divert their energy from the political 


fight. 


680 


Once people are brought to believe that they can buy a little house with 
their savings they will devote themselves to the task of increasing their savings 
and no spare time will be left to them for the political struggle against those 
who, one way or another, intend one day to secure possession of the pennies 
that have been hoarded. 


Instead of participating in the political conflict on behalf of the opinions 
and convictions which they have been brought to accept, they will now go ‘all 
out’ for their ‘settlement’ idea and in the end they will fall between two stools. 


To-day the National Socialist Movement is at the beginning of its 
struggle. To a great extent it must first of all shape and develop its ideals. 


It must employ every ounce of its energy in the struggle to have its great 
ideals accepted, but this effort will not be crowned with success, unless the 
combined energies of the Movement be devoted exclusively to this struggle. 


To-day we have a classic example of how the militant strength of a 
people becomes paralysed when that people is too much taken up with purely 
economic problems. 


The Revolution which took place in November 1918, was not brought 
about by the trade-unions, but was carried out in spite of them, and the German 
bourgeoisie is not waging a political fight for the future of its country because 
it believes that that future can be amply secured by constructive work in the 
economic field. 


We must learn as lesson from such phenomena, because in our case the 
same thing would happen in the same circumstances. The more the combined 
strength of our Movement is concentrated in the political struggle, the more 
confidently may we count on being successful along our whole front, but if we 
busy ourselves prematurely with tradeunionist problems, settlement problems, 
etc., it will be to the detriment of our cause, taken as a whole. 


For, though these problems may be important, they cannot be solved in an 
adequate manner until we have political power in our hands and are able to 
use it in the service of these schemes. Until that day comes these problems can 
have only a paralysing effect on the Movement and if it takes them up too soon 
they will only be a hindrance in the effort to attain its ideological aims. 


It may then easily happen that trade-unionist considerations will decide 
the political trend of the Movement, instead of the Weltanschauung of the 


681 


Movement determining the course the trade-unions are to adopt. 


The Movement and the nation can derive advantage froma National 
Socialist trade-unionist organisation, only if the latter be so thoroughly 
inspired by National Socialist ideas that it runs no danger of falling into step 
behind the Marxist movement, for a National Socialist trade-union which 
considered itself only as a competitor against the Marxist unions would be 
worse than none. 


It must declare war against the Marxist trade-union, not only as an 
organisation but, above all, as an ideal. 


It must declare itself hostile to the idea of class and class warfare and, in 
place of this, it must declare itself the defender of the various vocational and 
professional interests of the German people. 


Considered from all these points of view it was not then advisable, nor 
is it yet advisable, to think of founding our own trade-union, unless somebody 
appeared who was obviously called upon by Fate to solve this particular 
problem. 


Therefore, there remained only two possible courses—either to 
recommend our own party members to leave the trade-unions in which they 
were enrolled, or to remain in them for the moment, with the idea of disrupting 
them as much as possible. 


In general, I recommended the latter alternative. There could be nothing 
against this, especially in 1922-1923, since, during the inflation, the financial 
gain which the trade-unions derived from the few members who belonged to 
our, as yet, youthful Movement was negligible, but the damage done to the 
unions was very considerable since the adherents of National Socialism were 
their most inveterate critics and consequently exerted a disintegrating influence 
from within. 


I entirely discountenanced all experiments which were destined from the 
very beginning to be unsuccessful. I would have considered it criminal to 
deprive a worker of some part of his scanty earnings on behalf of an 
organisation which, according to my inner conviction, could not promise any 
real advantage to its members. 


If a new political party fades out of existence it is seldom a matter for 
regret, but nearly always for congratulation and nobody has a right to 


682 


complain, for what each individual contributes to a political movement is 
given with the idea that he may receive no return for it. 


The man who pays his dues to a trade-union has the right to expect that 
the promises made to him will be kept in return; if this is not done, then the 
promoters of such a trade-union are swindlers, or at least irresponsible 
persons who ought to be brought to book. 


The course of action we pursued in 1922 was adopted in accordance 
with these principles. Others thought they knew better and founded trade- 
unions. 


They upbraided us for being short-sighted and failing to see into the 
future, but it did not take long for these organisations to disappear and the 
result was the same as in our own case, with this difference, that we had 
deceived neither ourselves nor other people. 


683 


684 


685 
